### Introduction
<!-- Editing Guide: The pipe (|) position in this comment is 120:                                                       | -->

Hi everyone welcome to Data Umbrella webinar also co-promoted with nyc PyLadies I'm going to do a brief introduction  
and then turn it over to Emily for her presentation and then after that what you could do is you can place any questions  
in the Q&A and at the end Emily will answer questions from them but just and just a reminder to reiterate this talk is  
being recorded about me I'm a statistician and data scientist I'm the founder of data brella and I'm also an nyc pie  
ladies organizer the mission of Data Umbrella is to provide a welcoming and educational space for underrepresented  
persons in the field of data science and machine learning we welcome allies who support our cause our home page is  
dataumbrella.org check it out we're also on Twitter and we are a volunteer run organization so any time spent organizing  
this event is all on volunteer time PyLadies is a global organization and the New York City chapter is one of the one  
of the local chapters it's a group for Python ladies and gender minorities of all level check out our home page there is  
a very active slack team that you can join and it's a really great community if you have questions on Python it's really  
it's really I recommend joining that code of conduct we have a code of conduct we're dedicated providing a professional  
harassment free experience for everybody and thank you for contributing to making this you know to fulfilling the  
mission of this group which is to make it make an inclusive friendly community for people who are under represented in  
data science at the Data Umbrella website there are many resources available and I've taken some screenshots about  
contributing to open source about conferences about other community groups inclusive language responsibility social  
impact so please check it out later for more upcoming events the best place to find out about upcoming events is on the  
Meetup page so the best thing to do is to join the Meetup group we do also post them on Twitter and LinkedIn as well and  
Facebook this talk is being recorded and a copy of it will be uploaded to YouTube within the week all right so we're  
gonna get started and I'm gonna turn it over to Emily all right hi everyone I'm just gonna start sharing my slides OK  
right welcome thank you all again for joining me I'm very excited to be here I wanted to give a little bit of a  
background about where this talk came from so this talk is titled same title as my book build a career in data science  
which is all about the non-technical skills and knowledge you need to get started and succeed in a data science career  
so if you haven't seen the book before if you're interested after this talk and learning more you can get 40 off with  
the code mtp umbrella 20. I'll also show that at the end at datasidecareer.com and that code's also good for 40 off  
everything on manning which has a lot of technical books on you know coding in Python or r or whatever kind of things  
you want to do in this talk I'm going to focus on the first six chapters of the book so this covers getting started with  
data science what it is the skills and then some of the first steps about finding a data science job all right what is  
data science  
 

#### 00:04:02,080::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
I really like this definition from kassie kozikov which is that data science is a discipline of making data useful I  
like this definition because it's pretty all-encompassing right so folks can define data science as oh it's just you  
know machine learning it's just you know this area but I really do think that just like you know you might not say  
you're a professional writer but all of us do writing as part of our jobs many people besides just those who have the  
title data scientists can be doing data science you might be familiar with this venn diagram from drew conway which is  
where does data science fall it's the intersection of these three skills called like hacking skills math and stats  
knowledge and substantive expertise and we updated this a little bit for our book although we didn't change much which  
is you know those same three basic areas programming databases we call it domain knowledge instead and math and stats  
but we also wanted to highlight what are the areas of data science that are most associated with you know the  
intersections of these so I'm going to talk more about the difference between like analytics machine learning and  
decision science but I wanted to make clear so rather than a venn diagram where you kind of either have it or you don't  
that you know these are all levels right so you can have some people could be you know come from a computer science  
background and have really in-depth programming knowledge whereas Maybe some other people come from statistics and are  
really strong in that so it's not an either or there's a big range of skills that you can have but what do you need to  
know to get that data scientist job I do think that you really need just practically in terms of like the availability  
of positions to know either r or Python and this is going to be your main language day in and day out for doing things  
like cleaning data for making visualizations her writing reports so on and so forth but a lot of that data you'll need  
to get from a SQL database where it's stored and that's where SQL comes in so SQL is a query language that fortunately  
the basics of it you can pick up pretty much in a weekend or less and then you can go from there as you need it and  
finally we have git get if you're not familiar with it is a version control system and the reason you need this is  
twofold one again just sort of practically it's something that's very useful in the job because what it allows you to do  
is rather if you've ever like saved you know word files and you've been like draft one draft two draft three draft ten  
because you wanted those old versions in case you needed something from them git basically does this for you so rather  
than saving every time you commit it gives a snapshot of what your code looked like at that time so if you ever need to  
go back to it you can there's a bunch of other benefits as well but the second big one is it's a great collaboration  
tool so github is one of the places you can host your code that you've saved with git and it's a way that many open  
source projects are done through github that's how you can contribute code or file issues if you're working on a data  
science team that's how you could collaborate on a project so this is the third fundamental thing you need to know on  
the programming side and I'll add here at the end a lot of people ask like well what should I learn r or Python this is  
a tough question my first advice is Python is generally more common to see in job descriptions so if you just want to go  
off like what's the most likely thing I'll have it's probably Python but r is more common in certain types of positions  
so sometimes more analytics positions or people coming from academia so it's worth it if you have an idea of what  
industry you want to work in in data science or what type of data science job to take a look at those job descriptions  
and see do they say r do they say Python do they say both and if it seems like ah it's kind of like either or some of it  
is Python some of it is r you know I would try out both of them and see what you like better but I would definitely  
focus  
 

#### 00:08:01,520::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
at the beginning on just getting good at one of them rather than trying to get to a medium level in both all right so  
mathematics and statistics I'm going to break this down into a couple of parts the first is knowing what techniques  
exist so for example if you're working at a company and they say hey I need to group customers together you need to know  
that oh I should try clustering that's a mathematical method that can make groups from this data well then you need to  
know how to apply them so how do you actually do a k-means clustering for example in r of Python but finally how do you  
choose which to try so there are many clustering methods and rather than trying each one of them you know if you know  
something about the technique if you know that what cases they work well and what they don't work well in you can narrow  
down pretty quickly and figure out you know what technique should I try and also some of the intricacies of do I have to  
normalize my data beforehand you know all these other things of understanding a bit under the hood how it works finally  
domain knowledge so I'm going to take this diagram from renee t on to describe domain knowledge which is a core job of  
most data scientists is to take a business question for example how can we split our customers into different groups to  
market to and turn that into a data science question so in this case like the example I gave before how can we run a  
clustering algorithm to segment customer data then you need to get the data science answer so for example your  
clustering found three distinct groups but you can't stop there because that's not very helpful to the business what  
they want to hear is something like hey here are three types of customers new high spending and commercial for if you've  
been working for example with kaggle competitions they start at the data science question right they start with here is  
a data set you know predict this thing but most the time you're not going to get something so clear-cut and you're going  
to have to work with the business stakeholder to try to figure out what are they actually trying to answer what are they  
looking for and things you need to do that successfully include good communication skills empathy and understanding your  
data which is huge so for example where where can you find your data what are some assumptions what are some edge cases  
and this is where you'll probably see a lot of tweets about working with messy data this is exactly about that because  
in the real world just data comes with so much mess you don't know if you should go and try to find another data set  
does another one exist you do try to collect more data so you're going to need to be making these types of decisions all  
right so that's a little bit about what data science is what are some of the core skills you need to be a data scientist  
great but how do you become one and I'm actually going to say all right what is like I disagree with first which is that  
they're selling as a fake data scientist so I pulled these headlines just like how can you spot a fake data scientist 20  
questions for a fake data scientist I just think this is total bs gatekeeping and to not let this dissuade you and to to  
make you worry that you know maybe because you don't have a formal degree in data science or you did a boot camp or  
whatever that you cannot be a real data scientist because you can and looking at these must-know lists so these are like  
20 things you need to know like honestly I don't know a lot of these right I yeah I learned Python once upon a time I  
don't use it much anymore I only worked with time series data seriously and a couple months ago so you don't need to  
necessarily know all of these things and I really like renee teat's tweet here which is saying like hey look here are  
some tools I use often like SQL Python tableau on jupiter but I never used r or neural networks or natural language  
processing and you'd find people say like oh that's absolutely fundamental to being data scientists no I really think  
the skills I laid out at the beginning like you know some programming some math and stats you know some domain knowledge  
and communication skills is really what you need to get started and you learn the rest on on the way so if you have a  
project come up where you  
 

#### 00:12:00,240::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
need to do analysis of text you'll learn natural language processing or you'll learn image analysis or tensorflow but  
there are plenty of data science jobs we don't need to use that and it doesn't make you less of a data scientist for not  
knowing it or not using it in this talk I'm going to go through four ways that will help you find a data science job the  
first is creating a portfolio then we have expanding your network finding the right jobs and tailoring your application  
creating a portfolio so I define a portfolio as a public body of work that illustrates your data science skills so how  
you can do that is one of two ways is a diagram from our book so you can start with a data set that you find interesting  
and find a question answer or start with a question and find data related to it to make an analysis so let's look at  
some examples so a great place to find data sets is tidy Tuesday this is a weekly project it's was started in the art  
community but these data sets are usually in csv files so you absolutely can just download them and work with them in  
Python and as you can see there's data sets on you know star wars on comic books on bikes and this has been going on for  
a couple years now so I can almost guarantee you're gonna find at least one data set in here that's interesting to you  
and worth exploring and this is nice because it's you know it's relative there's sometimes the data still messy but it's  
available and there's just it comes with a description or a data dictionary so it's a great place to get started another  
ex and here we have some people who've you know done this so this is someone sharing a visualization that they made  
about anime and manga genres and someone looking at ages of tennis champions so if you're looking for some inspiration  
you can see these people share it on Twitter with the tidy Tuesday hashtag so it's another reason to choose these data  
sets because let's say you explore it you can then look hey what did other people who worked with this data set do but  
you could also start with a question instead so this is a blog post about trump's tweets that started with a tweet that  
came out which said every non-hyperbolic tweet is from iphone his staff every hyperbolic one is from android but this  
was essentially an assumption from looking at some of the tweets and how they differed so what dave Robinson wrote this  
posted is he decided to analyze it so he did some sentiment analysis so he saw yes in fact the android does have you  
know more words that are on the sadness scale or fear anger and this actually was picked up by some news outlets and so  
what he actually did before the sentiment is he also showed look the pattern of the android and the iphone's tweets  
these are clearly different like how they quote tweet when they tweet so on it definitely looks like these are different  
people and we have seen trump tweeting on his android so the other one must be the campaign staff so in this case there  
was a question and so dave went out and got used the Twitter api to get the you know backlog of tweets and to analyze  
those so some tips on when you do a data science portfolio project so you know what I've shown here is these are blog  
posts or tweets with it which I definitely recommend so after you do the analysis share what you learned and a great  
thing to include is some visualizations so this is jeff cow who at the time that he did this project was a meta student  
which is a boot camp that I also went to and he's looking he's using you know natural language processing to find to  
analyze these net neutrality comments to find that a lot of them the pro appeal were likely faked and I really love this  
visualization he chose because it might not be an obvious one but what he's showing is hey look I I didn't find that  
there were identical exactly identical messages but I found that there are pretty much identical structures and so he  
does the colors here so he shows one messages americans as opposed to the next one individual citizens as  
 

#### 00:16:00,320::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
opposed to citizens rather than the scc you know as opposed to washington bureaucrats as opposed to watching bureaucrats  
so on and so forth so I thought this was a really cool visualization and definitely think about how you can catch  
people's attention at the beginning next choose a topic you're excited about this is my old salmon writing a blog post  
on whether Python users are more likely to get into slytherin don't feel that you have to you know pick a project or  
analyze something that you're like ah I'm like interested in finance I guess I do finance data like find something that  
you like I you know one of my projects was about pokemon teams and what types I should have my pokemon team because I  
was playing pokemon and I wanted to know so you know it's less important what the topic is and much more the kind of  
skills that you can show as you did it so for example showing that you you know here's some code that you did hey look I  
can get users I can write a function and get users from Twitter I can do some you know data filtering I can do this like  
map function and per so on and so forth my third tip is limit your scope I really like this quote from a blog post says  
you know perfections can be a real hurdle and next time I'm not going to wait so long to push something out because I  
think that last mile can be a big barrier feeling like oh you know I I could do one more thing or you know what if my  
code isn't quite good enough so try at the beginning like it's OK if you don't answer every question you have about a  
data set maybe say hey I'm gonna try to answer this one question or I'm gonna try to make this one visualization or I'm  
you know I want to do this project because I'll need to you know I have to get some data from the web and so I'm just  
you know I'm just going to get the data and I'm going to publish how I got the data I'm not going to worry about doing  
anything with it and that's perfectly fine and it's definitely better to have something out there than nothing and on  
that point this is inspired by same dave Robinson trump his our studio keynote which I definitely recommend watching  
which is on the unreasonable effectiveness of public work but basically I used to think all right like an analysis  
essentially it's getting more valuable as I go right I have an idea and then I get the data and I clean it I explore and  
so on and you know this this is true from your own learning standpoint like you're learning things along the way but in  
terms of as part of your portfolio as some work that you can show someone when you're applying for jobs it really you  
just need to get it out there work on your computer is so much less valuable than something that's on github or a blog  
or kaggle just something public because it doesn't have to necessarily be you go and tweet about it but something that  
if you're in a job interview you could say hey go to this url or put on your resume here's where my projects are hosted  
so that someone can see it and on that point you know this whole process is getting it public by putting it on github  
and then writing a blog post about it so putting it on github I this is an example from as I mentioned I went to medici  
my final project on data science freelancers and the helpful thing when you're putting something on github is to write a  
readme so to help people understand hey what am I even looking at so in this case I said this is a project where I got  
information on 93 000 freelancers 3 000 jobs currently and here's how the repo is organized with these different scripts  
and what each one of them does and right as I mentioned this is also a good way if you haven't used git or github before  
to practice those skills on the blogging side well where do you want a blog there you can go with something like medium  
or wordpress which has the advantage of being easy and quick to set up you get some organic traffic on medium if people  
search say data science or the topic or your blog post but on the other hand there's less customizability and control so  
for example I know medium seems like more things have been going behind a paywall if they decide that's what they want  
all articles to do you can't do anything about that on the other hand if you make your own website you really do have  
all that control so that's a big advantage it's always going to be free it does take a little longer to set up  
 

#### 00:20:00,720::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
but there are more tools that make that easier I actually think with fast ai also as a new tool I'm working from github  
to publish a blog so I should add that here and you may get stuck debugging issues so I've definitely I use blog down  
personally which is an r package I've gotten stuck occasionally but overall I like it because I'm in complete control it  
works very well with r and the other advantage of it is that if you are someone who really wants to customize it you're  
like I want this exact font I want this color scheme I want this there's a lot of themes that you can get pretty easily  
that you can then see OK this type of you know theme comes with these colorings but then you can customize from there  
and this you know the sky is the limit so some things you can blog about once you have your analysis well of course you  
can explain it right so this is someone explaining their analysis from a tidy Tuesday data set about the gender wage gap  
in australia you could teach a concept so julia silke here is showing principal components analysis using stack overflow  
data this is a great thing if you say just took a course on a statistical technique or machine learning write a tutorial  
about it show other people how to do it write the thing that you wish you had had at the beginning because it would have  
made learning it so much easier or you can share your experience so in this case there's a post on our studio conference  
from danielle vazquez who got a scholarship to go and so if you attend a conference if you go to a Meetup talk that you  
really like you can write about it you can talk about what you enjoyed if the talks were recorded for conference say  
which ones you recommend going to and so on you can also give advice so this is a blog post from the New York about the  
New York r conference from our ladies New York City which had some speaker experience and tips or my co-author jaclyn  
knowles about prioritizing data science work so if you have been say working the field or related field and you want to  
give advice that's a great thing to write a blog post about and it may be faster than doing say a whole analysis because  
you might already have every all the advice you need in your head or think about the advice that people come to you for  
how can you put that in blog post and share with the world so next we're going to talk about expanding your network this  
is rachel catman talking about the difference this is research in kaggle about the different ways that people already  
employed the field found their job versus those entering the field and we see a big one about employed in the field is  
recruiters and friends families and colleagues way more than those entering the field and those are about your network  
those are about who do you know in case of friend and family and colleagues but the recruiter is also a personal  
relationship so this is a really common way that people get jobs how do you build it though well you know you're here  
tonight or this afternoon or in the you know the in the early morning for folks in certain time zones going to a meet up  
that is one of the advantages of covid is that if you're in an area that is you know say maybe you're in a rural area or  
a small town there weren't any Meetups going on locally well most Meetups have moved online now and some of them are  
doing networking stuff before and after or you can you know maybe you can meet the speaker or other things like that so  
see especially for some smaller Meetups you know it and if you are someone who say like lives in los angeles and you  
hadn't been before to a pilot's los angeles meet up Maybe think about going because even if it has to be virtual for a  
while there's still people local they're probably working at local companies and they can eventually help you out in  
your job search I'm a big Twitter person probably a little bit too much but I will admit it definitely confused me at  
the beginning how I use Twitter is in a couple ways the first is ask for help and with that please use hashtags rather  
than adding a specific person like adding hadley wickham like it's definitely understandable but the hashtag is great  
 

#### 00:24:00,320::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
because people follow the hashtag so they can retweet it they can see about answering it so even if you don't have many  
followers this is a good way to get visibility and to get people looking at your question so in this case I asked about  
globally setting a color scale for ggplot2 and I got an answer and when I did I wrote a follow-up tweet saying like hey  
think you know thank you for this post on how to do that so this is one thing you can use Twitter for you can also live  
tweets talks so pre-covet times this was me live tweeting our studio conference and also a Meetup and I sort of do this  
in two ways like one is to take notes for myself of some of my big key takeaways but the other is to share with people  
who didn't get to go to the Meetup like what I think that they could really learn and benefit from so this is a nice way  
to take notes for yourself and share some knowledge and you can share your work so when you do write that blog post when  
you do publish that github repo share it point people to it again you can use hashtags as a way if you don't have a lot  
of Twitter followers for more people to see it but this is you know I think writing the portfolio the main point is not  
that you get like hundreds of week retweets or you get thousands of you on your post it's more for the learning yourself  
and to have that available when you're talking and interviews about projects you've done but it is a nice bonus if it  
can help other people and other people can benefit from it you can share other people's work so I enjoy tweeting about  
packages I find useful papers again sort of this dual benefit of thanking the person who wrote it showing that I  
appreciate it making a note for myself and hopefully helping other people discover it now that's like sort of broader  
like networking Twitter but what if you want to reach out to a specific person that you're interested in Maybe because  
some work that they do a blog post the company they work on so on and so forth I like this post from trey kazi which is  
called do you have time for a quick chat and what he does is he walks through I first share is what is a typical message  
he receives which I have here which like hey do you have any time for chat I'd love to pick your brain and he shows how  
he would revise that so the first thing is to mention the work so tell them why are you reaching out oh it's because I  
read this blog post on data science interviews so this shows like there's a reason you pick this specific person which  
hopefully there is rather than saying mass messaging or mass connecting with everyone on LinkedIn tell them why you're  
you're interested in talking to them specifically this also shows that you're going to have questions that weren't  
answered and things that were publicly written before so for example if folks ask about you know my job search advice  
often I'll say hey I wrote some obviously wrote this book which you have to pay money for but I also wrote these free  
blog posts I have these recorded talks you know why don't you start there and let me know if you have any follow-up  
questions second this person offers a topic so they say hey I'm currently interviewing and the part about whiteboard  
coding is interesting I'd love to hear your thoughts about whiteboard coding questions and answers in my own experience  
so this lets them know you have a specific thing you want to talk about rather than just like I just want to talk about  
everything like you know my whole job search and finally suggest a specific limited time so in this case could you spare  
30 minutes on say Tuesday or Wednesday because this gives one the person you're reaching out to a better idea of what  
kind of commitment this will be and it shows them that you're not necessarily expecting on their first meeting with you  
to take two hours of their time if you're looking for people to reach out to definitely check out datahelpers.org by  
angela bassa so she put out a call for folks who are interested in helping aspiring or junior data science people or  
even some seniors with specific problems and people volunteered so I just took a screenshot of some of the volunteers  
and you can see some of them list specifically what they they can help with so for example that you know public sector  
government data or machine learning or time series  
 

#### 00:28:01,440::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
in r so this is a really nice place because these people have already said that they're interested in helping out and  
mentoring a bit about their background what they can do so I definitely recommend starting with this list and you can  
reach out and say hey I saw you on data helpers Maybe see if they have blog posts other public work if they don't you  
can just say hey scion data helpers I would love to chat about your work at a public library I you know have so and so  
background and this is very interesting to me and then another tip from gordon shotwell is do try to be specific so for  
example he says here how do I learn the basic of neural networks versus how do I learn statistics because you know  
that's the distance question it's so broad and there's so many ways to learn statistics and there's so many specific  
types of statistics and it's like OK but what so the first question kind of like what do you want to use it for and  
this is definitely like hard when you're starting out in a field because you're like I don't know like I that's what I  
need you to tell me is what statistics to learn but if you can like you know you can even ask that you could say hey I'm  
very new to this field I don't really know what area to start with do you have a book recommendation or something and  
that can get you started and you'll be like OK I read this book and then I want to learn you know I got really  
interested in this area let me learn some more and ask some more people about that finding the right job I do feel like  
sometimes it's like I just want you know a data science job like any data sciences job but I do think it's worth it to  
take some time and think about like OK but what kind of job do you want and that job actually may not have the data  
scientist title so this is jesse moss pack we interview in chapter five each chapter of our book we have 16 chapters has  
an interview with a practicing data scientist or data science manager at the end and she says think about how attached  
you are to the data scientist title like if you decide to not concern yourself with what you're called and focus on the  
work that you're doing instead you'll have a lot more flexibility to find jobs that's really true especially as someone  
starting out in the field it is easier to get a related job let's say a data analyst title or program analyst or  
research and evaluation specialist like I said at the start there's so many jobs that are data science related that also  
at another company might have the data scientist job title for that exact same job so if if you're able to and Willing  
to I'm definitely recommend being flexible and I talk about this in this chapter but you know for example just searching  
teams terms like data and analysis rather than I must have the data scientist title but in data science there are a  
couple of areas of specialties and so one and I want to divide these into these three categories that airbnb uses  
because I really like it the first is analytics so this is sets here like defining monitoring metrics creating data  
narratives building tools so this you know might be called the data analyst at some companies but it's basically you  
know taking data that's there or gathering it and presenting it to people whether in a report or in a dashboard often  
you work very closely with product teams or other teams to help them with their analysis needs then we have algorithms  
you can also call machine learning so this is about you know building and interpreting algorithms that power data  
products so this is I think Maybe what's a lot of people think of when they think of data scientists is like the person  
working on the amazon you know recommendation algorithm that pops up when you're looking at a product page and finally  
we have inference which we've also called in our book decision science which is the really statistics part of like  
establishing causal relationships so for example this would be someone working on the microsoft experimentation team you  
know trying to figure out all right we run this a b test we you know show half of people the old experience half the new  
we have these numbers about how it performed but can we infer from that you know how do we how do we make sure it's not  
just noise and confidently infer that you know one is better than the other when you're looking at job descriptions  
don't worry about meeting all of the  
 

#### 00:32:00,799::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
requirements a lot of time they're wishlists and you really only need to meet 60 or 70 of the core requirements so that  
does mean for example if they say you know we need someone with three years of experience coding in Python if you've  
never coded in Python or any like any language at all yeah you're probably not qualified for that job but if you have  
two years of experience coding it or two years of professional and three years in school even if they say three years  
professional you probably will be they'll be very happy with you so don't let the kind of job post looking for the data  
science unicorn intimidate you finally consider the types of companies so in our chapter two we lay out five different  
example companies and of course not all companies meet this but you know a fair amount of them fall into it so for  
example you could have massive tech you could have your your Google your Facebook you could have a startup you could  
have like a midtech like lyft airbnb a government contractor so on and so forth and what I put here in this kind of  
matrix is how those differ along these axes of how much freedom do you have what's the salary like what's the job  
security and there's not a you know a best answer for some people you may say you know what I really value job security  
and so I am fine if like you know there's a little bit more bureaucracy in my job the salary is not quite as great  
because at the end of the day like I want to have job security and I want to work more of a nine-to-five job so you know  
I think like a government contractor would be a great one or Maybe on the other hand you're like I really love freedom I  
love moving fast I want lots of chances to learn and I don't care if there will be a senior data scientist help me so  
maybe you go to a startup so there's nowhere to answer this but you really want to reflect on what are your needs and  
what are you looking for in a company so finally I want to talk about tailoring your application so writing a good  
resume this is an example resume we share in our book and there are a couple of things I want to highlight and you  
definitely don't have to use this exact format but some of the things I like about it are it includes your github and  
your blog so if you put this work into making a project portfolio you should share it it uses clear and consistent  
formatting so the color scheme is grey for most of the things but the title of the position or the major is highlighted  
in green the font stays the same and it's not necessarily again like the color isn't the same throughout this resume but  
the same type of information always has the same type of color next embrace white space you don't need to have a super  
cluttered resume that packs everything in you can let it breathe a little bit because it makes it a lot easier to skim  
and limit it to one page now there are exceptions to this so certain industries might look for a longer resume if you  
have 20 years of experience you're switching a data scientist maybe you need two pages but you know most people I would  
say you know under 10 years you really can fit it into one page how you can do that for example is you know focus more  
on the things that are relevant if you had a job for five years that's really not that relevant to data science you can  
just have one bullet point where you describe it and devote more time to the things you're more of or you can do a  
column format and put some things on the side you can get creative but in general again because people are not going to  
spend that much time looking at your resume you want to make sure they can quickly hone in on what's important so for  
those bullet points try to quantify your impact so rather than saying you ran a b test on email campaigns say you  
conducted 20 a b tests on email campaigns resulting in a 35 increase in click rate and a 5 increase in attributed sales  
so this quantifies both OK like how much of something did you do and then also what was the impact OK if it I just  
wrote a conducted 20 a b test on email campaigns well a b tests aren't valuable in and of themselves they're valuable  
because of you know the the results that they can have showing you that hey this thing this you know treatment is better  
you should launch and your sales will  
 

#### 00:36:01,520::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
increase so try to try to figure out OK rather than saying just like I wrote this report you know like listing what's  
on your job description what did it matter did it increase sales for the company did it like you know decrease the  
amount of time it took someone to do their job because you automated something like really think about like why would  
other people care that I did this and related to data science so you know even if you don't have like a data scientific  
analytics background there's plenty of types of jobs that are really relevant so for example were you a teacher teacher  
or consultant there you have communication skills right like you had classroom you know for teaching and classroom  
management you had to figure out how to explain math to maybe you had an ap class for you know bc calculus but you also  
had you know math students who were you know more remedial and so you had to figure out how to tell your lessons could  
did you work in the domain so for example if you're a sales executive maybe you could be a data scientist for the sales  
team and that would be hugely valuable to like have been in that system know how to use salesforce like know what sales  
executives are thinking so on and so forth math and statistics you know what classes have you done that are related did  
you do any undergraduate research so for example let's say you majored in psychology what did you take a psychology  
statistics class did you do psychology research where you had to do statistical tests or data cleaning or data  
collection really try to think all right how have I used math and stats even if the class wasn't necessarily or the  
research wasn't called that and finally programming and databases so if you haven't worked in data science have you used  
excel surveymonkey Google analytics tableau SQL any of these tools they're not all tools some of them are tools you  
might still use as a data scientist especially SQL but even if you never use excel again you can talk about like the  
projects that you did with and it shows that you've worked with data even if you use a different tool and of course the  
personal projects that we talked about with the portfolios this a cover letter is not always required but it sometimes  
is and what you want here is first try to find the hiring manager name if you can so sometimes that's listed in the  
position sometimes you can look on LinkedIn if it's a smaller company especially like it's OK if you go two levels up  
so say you're applying to a company and you find a director of data OK maybe they're not who's going to be your  
manager but it still shows you did research on the company you know to try to figure out who would be a relevant person  
and it shows that you're tailoring to this company next tie together your experience so your cover letter should be a  
story it's not just a repeat of your resume but instead saying like OK how does all this experience fit together so  
give some examples of you know the work that you've done talk about a little bit more so you know here you can read like  
prior to this I was at boot camp I was an investment consultant like I took people to Python I tailored a curriculum so  
on and so forth and focus on what you can offer to the company so the company's not interested in like oh this place  
would be a great place to start my career like or you know it's nice to say that you love it and you research it but  
they really care about like well what are you gonna do for us why should we hire you and what you want to show is look I  
can solve a problem that you're facing with this experience that last point tailored to the company so if you know for  
example it's in let's say you multiple projects and one of them's I don't know like related to web data you know website  
com web companies that you're applying to maybe use that project because that's going to be more relevant to them so I  
want to close out by doing a brief recap of some of the takeaway points so first you don't need to know everything don't  
let yourself get paralyzed by these must-know lists or all these things you can learn data science or all the millions  
of courses because no one knows everything you don't need to know everything to do you know a great thing at your job  
and you'll always be learning so don't let that hold you back there's no such thing as a fake data scientist  
 

#### 00:40:01,119::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
I I just really don't like this point you know of there being a fake data scientist no you know if if you data science  
is a broad enough umbrella for us all but that being said you may want to let go of the data scientist title because  
there's so many positions where you've been doing interesting data science work that may not have that title for  
whatever reason and will also honestly have less competition for those jobs so maybe that's something you want to have  
eventually but for your first job try to focus more instead on like OK what can I learn how can I gain experience and  
not so much what I will be called so when you're applying a job remember to focus on creating a portfolio to one help  
yourself learn and to show off your skills to expand your network to find the right job not just any job and to tailor  
your application and so with that I want to thank everyone for coming and I'm going to take questions in a minute if you  
enjoyed this talk you can find some data science career related posts and some other data science topics on my blog  
hooked on data.org you can also find me on Twitter at Robinson underscore yes like I said this is all covered in the  
book with a bunch more stuff that's available at datacycareer.com and you can get 40 off with mtp umbrella 20. thank you  
yes and I am open to answering questions as soon as I can remember how to not cheat there we go how to stop sharing  
great so do you want to read the question yeah that would be helpful OK so the first one that had five upvotes is how  
different is a data analyst role from a data scientist role ah great question so this is hard because a couple reasons  
one is there's definitely disagreement about this so some people divide it as it's about the tools that you use so like  
a data analyst will use a graphical user interface something like tableau or excel whereas a data scientist uses  
scripted language like r or Python other people say it's about the type of problems that you tackle so I just listened  
to the super data science podcast with krill and he said he divides it as a data analyst is determining the exact term  
it's basically doing like descriptive analytics about the past what's happened before and a data scientist is doing  
predictive what's going to happen and some also some analysis of what would be prescriptive what should we do based on  
that so that's another way so there's all these different ways to divide it and the other problem is what it means that  
companies vary so much so there's a good blog post from lyft about how they changed all of their data analysts to be  
data scientists and their data scientists to be research scientists two years ago etsy where used to work did a similar  
thing whereas previously the data analyst team we were working we were using r and Python and stats and you know doing  
some you know even some machine learning but we were embedded with you know sort of other teams and basically we said we  
did data for data science for human consumption the data scientist team was about working on the ad algorithms or the  
search ranking algorithms so they did data science for machine consumption but then since I left they changed their  
title to data scientists so really it's so different from out from company to company but in terms of looking at  
positions with a data analyst what I would look out for is finding a position where you can use r or Python and there's  
some also you know some like stats or math or something that you can do in there as well but really just studying it but  
on the other hand you know if you've never worked with data before maybe you just want to start out with like you know I  
just want to start working with data it's OK if it's in excel  
 

#### 00:44:00,480::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
it's OK if it's Google analytics like it'll just get me comfortable OK the next question is what red flags should  
you look out for when interviewing for a data scientist I'm just laughing because I don't I don't think this was planted  
but jacqueline and I before wrote the book actually actually published a blog post called 12 red flags in data science  
interviews that you should look out for as a candidate so that's on my blog definitely feel free to check that out I'll  
just highlight a few I think one of the biggest ones is data engineering so is there data available is there any data is  
there a data engineering team you know have they done the work to make the data available or are you going to spend your  
first year basically being a data engineer and building a data warehouse now that could be fine if that's what you want  
to do but you should know that going in and the second thing I'll say is if you're starting out as a data science test I  
think most folks should try to go to it to a team where there's already an established data company where there's an  
established data science team rather than being the first or the second data scientist because that way you'll get more  
mentorship you'll learn more best practices but there's a bunch more like I said so feel free to check out the blog post  
OK the next one is from cecily and it is is it absolutely necessary to have a cs mathematics background to start a  
career in data science yeah it's definitely not absolutely necessary I mean it's some like at some point you will need  
to pick up some of those skills right like at some point you know you whether that's coursera or doing a boot camp but  
you definitely I know people who were in terms like their formal education in college I know someone is like an english  
major you know lots of people with a social science major so maybe did a few stats classes but definitely not a math or  
a computer science degree so you really don't need to and don't forget and don't think of that as a negative so as I was  
talking about when you're thinking about on your resume how to you know tailor how you talk about your previous  
positions to data science like that's not just saying like to like trick the hiring manager into hiring you like you  
truly think about like you know liberal arts education learning to communicate learning to write well Maybe learning to  
do presentations that's hugely important a social sciences background is all about doing research like that's my  
background very similar to the data science process so you definitely don't need to have that background but I will say  
that is one of the places where a project portfolio is more helpful like if you're someone who's like you know I have a  
data science degree I have a math degree at computer science you know maybe you don't need a project portfolio you did  
enough relevant projects in undergraduate people tell from your resume like you have very relevant work experience but  
if you don't have if your resume doesn't right now show the data science skills that you have a portfolio can be really  
helpful for that OK the next question is from sammy and question is hello Emily I just graduated from medici questions  
are I seriously suffer from serious imposter syndrome do you have some tips on how to get rid of imposter syndrome oh  
god I wish I so one definitely check out caitlyn houdin's post on and let me actually just pull it up really quickly so  
I can post it in the chat on imposter syndrome because it's a great it's a really great post and so it highlights a  
couple thing which is first like part of the reason imposter syndrome is so easy to fall into in data science is because  
it's a new field says poaching makes in the post new field it's a combo of other fields it's constantly expanding so you  
have all these things right where it's like well you have a data scientist so I need to give computer science and also  
stats and I need to communicate and like I also need to do this other thing and you know you're probably never going to  
be as much an expert as someone who's just focused in that so that's hard there's always new technologies so even if  
somehow magically you learned  
 

#### 00:48:01,200::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
everything about data science right now you're you know two years from now there'll be a new technology and so you won't  
know everything anymore so that's one of the reasons I think it's so common and what caitlyn says she does to deal with  
this is just like try to remember like you know what what she does know so accepting that you can't know everything but  
that's OK but I do know things other people don't like I've built these predictive models I've you know you know  
learned to do machine learning models in production like remember what you do know and how valuable that is so that's  
been some helpful for me but I think the other thing honestly is having a community that will help support you so I've  
you know I've had people I mentioned a little bit about working at mattis there are some random people on the internet  
mostly on reddit where you don't have your real name who are like a bootcamp graduate can never be a real data scientist  
essentially like as bootcamp education just can't be and you know I I want hopefully some point I'll get the point where  
like I can just be like nope you know I'm secure in myself I you know will not this doesn't bother me at all but it did  
bother me but one thing that helped was like talking to other data scientists that I know and that really helped me is  
like yes there's some internal work you need to do but also there is something nice like turning to friends turning to  
former colleagues who are like what are you kidding you you did great work on that project like you did all these things  
like you're so valuable so that at least has helped me because the community also reminds you when you talk to these  
people when you get to know like that data scientist at airbnb or like these other things you admire you gotta know oh  
wait they don't they don't know everything either you know they also have doubts they are people too and I think that  
can really help break down this image of some of these folks on Twitter that they always feel confident that they know  
everything that no one ever criticizes them because when you get to know them you're like hey no these are actually  
people that I can relate to on a personal level great thanks so one person asked three questions but I do want to give  
other people a chance so I'll come back to that person once we get through them sushmita asked do companies value data  
science certifications from moocs like coursera edx and udemy I depends on the company like I saw Google was saying they  
come out with like a career certification that they said they would count the same as a four-year college degree and I  
think one of them is like data analytics so I guess in that case yes I would say more so I think it you can keep it on  
there it can be like like a nice little plus like cool they're continuing to educate yourself it's probably not enough  
to get you the job or even to get you necessarily the interview right because I think some folks still have doubts you  
know compared to like a four-year college degree they're like oh well like you know could they have cheated because they  
have just watched his lectures passively so I think much more effective is taking that knowledge that you learn in the  
course and applying it in a project so I don't think it will hurt but I don't necessarily think it's going to be a big  
factor in deciding whether to interview or hire you OK sorry about that I had to close the window the sirens were very  
loud in New York a lounge I I don't know if I'm pronouncing the name correctly asks do you have any specific advice for  
people who are switching careers yeah I mean I think so pretty much everything I said in the talk like applies right  
some of it a little more so like I mentioned earlier like project portfolios might be especially helpful but I really do  
think two things one you know with this like let go of the data scientist title like it depends like how far away was  
your previous career right is your previous career software engineer which is like pretty adjacent to data science or  
was it a I don't know art historian at the met which like is pretty unrelated in terms of domain although you know again  
you have think but in that case thing about communication skills like what can you bring and how can you maybe start  
doing data  
 

#### 00:52:00,400::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
as part of your job now so I don't really know much about art historians but like can you analyze some data can you you  
know post make a blog post about like you know some of the works or like some history of art and like show a  
visualization of how that changed over time so if you think about switching careers try to find ways can you incorporate  
data analysis data science into your current job and if at all possible because that can be a really good way when  
you're you know talking in job interviews or writing on your resume that you can be like yes I know this sounds like an  
unrelated career but actually look I found this way to do data I got these communication skills just really think about  
how you can frame what you're doing as something relevant to the field right the next question is from juan who asks for  
someone trying to switch careers into data science is a masters in data science a good idea or are there better ways to  
get into the industry so we have we write it all right so chapter 3 is on exactly this which is like how do I get the  
skills to be a data scientist I think masters is one way the downside is the cost in terms of like the actual monetary  
cost and also the opportunity costs right so if you're doing a full-time master's you probably can't work so you're not  
earning a salary for that time the other thing with data science masters specifically is you really want to be  
thoughtful and and picking the school because there are some good programs out there but they're all relatively new  
right like none of them really existed before five years ago and some of them are just trying to cash in on this phase  
and will be taught you know maybe they'll be teaching like outdated technologies or none of the professors have worked  
in industry or they just cobbled together like these statistics these computer science courses without actually like  
making it a you know curriculum that goes together so how you can sort of tell that is definitely look at the syllabus  
if you know some folks in data science like you reach out to them talk what they think about it also really ask and look  
at the alums like what are people who graduated from this program doing how will this help you find a job so it's one  
way the other a couple ways we cover are you could do a boot camp and you can learn on the job so like I talked about  
the art store and how can I use data on my job or third you can self teach right you can do online courses and things  
like that so if you want to learn more definitely check out chapter three but that's sort of my short bit on data  
science masters OK this next question that I really like is what is the best part and worst part of your current job  
so yeah so I I I think I'll actually say look kind of it's it's a twofold thing of kind of like in in some ways like the  
same thing being in some ways the best and the worst which is I now work on a centralized team of data scientists so  
previously at etsy I reported to another well at that time another data analyst but I was embedded with the search team  
so I was in their slack channel I was in their meetings you know they were the people who were kind of like day to day  
like telling me like you know what are some things that I should work on and then at my last company I reported to the  
vice president of growth so I was fully embedded in the growth team which was running experiments and now at warby  
parker the data science team is centralized so we're like a small data science core team and we work with different  
departments usually for a couple months at a time so that's been something that's been really exciting because you know  
we get to have an impact on lots of different departments but it's also you know sometimes I miss like being working  
really closely with another team like getting to know them at you know individually really well really getting to know  
that problem space versus you know more of like a couple months like deployment working on one specific project so I  
don't think you know that's something also to think about when looking at data science jobs you can definitely ask about  
them they may use different terminologies but the two  
 

#### 00:56:01,280::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
things to look for essentially are will you report to another data scientist or to you know like the head of the  
e-commerce team and are you going to be mainly working with one team or does your team you know work with lots of teams  
and you'll switch maybe every couple months OK the next question is for our is from artemis related questions are  
cecily what are good resources for brushing up on statistics probability and other math topics necessary for data  
science yeah so I'm going to post one link here so naked statistics is a really good introductory like especially if you  
have very little background in statistics it's like a great like very friendly like no there's not a lot of equations  
it's more about how do I think about statistics like what do these terms mean so that's a good place to get started and  
then the other one I recommend is introduction to statistical learning so this is like a very classic book in the field  
it's also available for free online there is code in r that's included along with it but even if you're learning Python  
you can I don't know if you want you could try to translate the code but you could also you know just focus most of the  
book is not about the code it's about the concepts and I really think if you you know just go through that book and  
learn that pretty well that is you know pretty much all the statistics and machine learning you need to get started OK  
the next job is the next question the next question is from gia wu the current job market is still competitive every ds  
job exam's job has thousands of applications is building connection and getting to this recruiter getting to the  
recruiter the only way to get through this [Music] so it depends on the company right so I would not say necessarily  
every data science job as thousands of applications because like a small startup that most people haven't heard of is  
probably not getting a thousand applications but yes like well pre-covered times I would say airbnb although of course  
they've had to lay off people and have a hiring freeze but like you know Google you know all the kind of like big names  
like yes those do actually have thousands of applications and it's true like the really the main way that people get  
that is through a referral so through someone that already works there that you know you've maybe worked with them  
before or potentially you get by reaching out or knowing the recruiter so that's why I would say like maybe don't start  
with those companies but look at like OK what are some smaller companies what are some local companies you know if you  
don't live in New York City or san francisco you know you might also have an advantage there like I don't know you're in  
nashville is not that small city but like you know a city like nashville where yes on the one hand there are fewer data  
science jobs but on the other hand you know they're less competition there's less people vying for them so I do think  
yes most the time for these really prominent companies some of them do like the ones in the middle like I think etsy  
when I was there did look at every resume that came through at least skimmed it but some companies do have automated  
systems that you know narrow down these thousand resumes based on keywords to the 100 that a recruiter will look for and  
sometimes they do employ some rules of thumb like OK if it's a new grad position this is your gpa or you have to be  
from the schools or you have to have this major and so in that case yes I do think like having those connections is  
always going to be really really helpful but it's possible and people do get jobs especially at smaller companies by  
applying on their website the next question is from wasilla if you're already good at either Python or r would it be a  
plus to learn the other language as well I think it's a plus if you're finding jobs that you're interested in that use  
the other language yes right because you you can definitely start that job you know you I I know people have gotten jobs  
who've been very experienced in one language and they've gotten jobs that will use the other because they basically said  
like look I know I'll do all these things in r you know I started learning Python and I'm confident that I can get up to  
speed and like do this like great work that you want to hire me for and do it in Python but if you're just like I don't  
know I just like you know yeah I'm happy with the language I have I just randomly kind of want to know the other one I  
think probably not I would focus more on getting good at the your main language and if needed there's a lot of tools  
coming out to make r and Python work really well together so for example there's reticulate for r so if there is  
something like OK I want to use r for most things but there's this Python package that I really want to use for this  
specific model you can just use it for that part right so you do all of your your data gathering and your data cleaning  
you know and data munching and then do this Python package for the machine learning model and then you use r again for  
visualizations and report writing so that's also an option so maybe if if there's something you're like I know our I  
know the other language has this tool that I really want that doesn't exist in mine and I want to learn it that could be  
a good reason to learn the other one but I wouldn't just say like oh I just you know it's better to learn both I would I  
would more stick to one unless you have a good reason to learn the other one the next question is from luke is there any  
specific advice you would give someone coming out of college for breaking into the field tips for getting interviews  
with very little professional experience yes so the first thing is definitely look for positions that have new grad so  
some of the bigger companies will have this where it'd be like specifically for recent college graduates second is data  
scientist is becoming more of a title for people with at least a few years of work experience even if not necessarily as  
a data scientist say as like a data analyst or a software engineer so again that's sort of like maybe letting go of the  
title like some companies just don't hire junior data scientists they don't hire entry level they hire data analysts for  
that role or other things like that and then finally if you can if your school that you graduate from has a career  
resources center like definitely go to that you know ask them for help with your resume a lot of them will do this for  
free if you're a recent grad and reach out on LinkedIn to people who've graduated from say your same major or you know  
who just wanted your career that you're interested and say hey I'm a recent graduate from you know x university which  
this person also went to you know I saw that you're you know a data scientist at this company I'm really interested in  
the field I majored in this you know would you have time to 30 minutes to chat you don't recognize especially in these  
times like for example parents of young kids just may not have a lot of extra time but there are lots of people who like  
helping people and also maybe especially like new graduates especially someone they have a connection to even if that  
connection is just that you graduated from the same school OK the next question is from shop thank you for your  
wonderful presentation I was interested in what your suggestion would be in regard to an individual who has no prior  
tech experience but wants to progress into the data world what program would you suggest starting with yes so I would so  
I would suggest so there's lots of different options here but I would Maybe start out with reading I'm also going to  
post this in the chat if people feel free to chime in if you have Python resource like I said I'm more of an r person  
but like let's start with the r for data science book which is available for free online you know start looking for that  
I really like it because for example Python like there are some for this but there are a lot of I wouldn't necessarily  
start with just like learn Python because they're going to talk about things that aren't that relevant to data science  
versus r for data science is like start by visualizing data which is like yes I want to visualize data  
 

#### 01:04:00,720::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
 so if you have no prior experience I'd start with like OK first let's try something out and let's try you know radar  
for data science there's some built-in data sets in r and so just try like oh OK here's this bolted data center in  
cars how would I find which car has the most miles per gallon OK how would I narrow it down to just the cars that have  
you know this much you know this many cylinders so on and so forth and because you want to start I would say like before  
you necessarily say oh I do a masters or a bootcamp I put a lot of money in time like start trying it out start seeing  
as even if your job's not tech related is there any data around right is there like anything you can do that's related  
or if not can you like start moving that way and if you know again if not like try practicing it in your free time and  
look for a community of other people so like r for data science for example has an online community of learning it has a  
slack channel that can be another nice place to just find other people who are going through the same thing as you OK  
the next question is from eliana which is what's a good way to practice SQL skills that employers love you yeah so it's  
funny I call it SQL that's the other like debate is it sequel or is it SQL is it data or data so SQL skills so more so  
SQL I would say you don't so much need like a project that shows you use SQL like versus like it's helpful I have a  
project that shows like are a Python instead you know lists on your resume you a lot of companies have SQL technical  
screens so that's going to be how they test like whether you know SQL and so you know it's more about like that's where  
you're going to like prove it so it's more about OK how do I get those skills to pass that technical interview so  
there's a bunch of SQL tutorials online honestly like I would focus on there's not a kind of advanced one but I wouldn't  
really worry about it that much like I'm gonna post like w3 SQL schools that's a great one to start again all three and  
yeah this is a great place to start and just learn things like OK how do I filter a SQL table how do I do some like  
string manipulation how do I join that's mostly the stuff that's going to come up and you can look you know if you also  
Google like SQL interview questions you'll get some like good example questions that you might face like we have a few  
in our book as well the next question is from aditi what is the most effective way to transition your career from data  
analytics focus to more inference based something that companies are more fun more comfortable calling a data scientist  
hmm that's a good question so I think I think there's probably a twofold approach this which is one like do you feel  
that you have the skills already so for example like maybe you have a statistics background you just haven't used it in  
your job or you've taken some online courses or you've you know read textbooks so if you don't feel you have those  
skills yet I would definitely kind of start there you know and read up on and build those skills and then but once you  
do feel like that I think that's honestly something I would talk to your manager about I think first the question is is  
there area in your current job where you could use inference skills right is there area would be more stats focused  
because maybe there is and that could be a great place to start or Maybe it turns out they're like you know what no like  
we really just don't we don't need it if that's the case you can see like if your own judgment is Maybe like actually  
they say this but I really think a model here would be useful you know maybe try that you know on on your either on your  
own time or if you have some extra time during your day and present that to them and say like hey I know like you know I  
I thought this you know I came up with this idea I thought it was really valuable what do you think or if there's really  
just nothing at your job I think it is sort of a process of looking at other jobs  
 

#### 01:08:02,240::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
and to show you're qualified for that job the first thing is one also your analytics experience will be will be relevant  
so even more inference jobs you're still doing a lot of like analytics work you know my like author jacqueline has a  
blog post you're not paid to model which is like modeling is the last step of this very long process of like getting the  
data talking to people you know cleaning it so on and so forth so even in those jobs your skills will be very useful and  
to show that you're prepared for them again part of it's going to be an interview or a take-home assignment so you know  
if you're applying to those jobs you get to that stage you know practicing almost take home assignments like seeing how  
you're doing OK are they asking you something and you're like oh I thought I could do this but actually they're asking  
for this and like I'm really like not comfortable with understanding my outputs or you know making a recommendation from  
it then it's Maybe time to go back to building those skills so I think it's really coming down to kind of pinpointing  
all right what what are these kind of steps to getting that job what's the what's the next point how do I keep building  
towards that are you OK to answer more questions yeah OK all right the next question is from neely which is how  
general do you go in your LinkedIn profile well the general advice is to tailor your resume to the company it seems  
difficult to do that on your public LinkedIn as well how general is it yes it's definitely yeah I don't in terms of me I  
haven't really like taylor to anything definitely I think much more important with your LinkedIn profile along with just  
you know have the basic information about where you worked all that good stuff is to have those resume bullet points and  
where for example you focus on quantifying it you're showing your impact you could also think about like what I do with  
medicine I like it I think I do this on my LinkedIn and I give like a little explainer of like what medici is in some of  
my projects the nice thing about LinkedIn is you don't really have to worry about space like I wouldn't do 20 bullet  
points for a job but maybe you can do four instead of the two you had to limit on your resume to wake at one page so I  
wouldn't you could tailor it as much at you know your summary maybe if you're like pretty much all the jobs I'm looking  
for are gonna be in the financial industry or they're gonna be very analytics folk focused jobs you know you can put  
that in your summary but that's something where it's like you're not so much tailoring to a specific company as telling  
people what types of companies and positions you're interested in OK so again with the questions I'm sort of skipping  
over some just to get people who haven't asked a question to ask their question first so susanna asks how do you assess  
what is doable for one person and how do you figure out what percentage of your time is spent on each period of the  
project life cycle so doable for one OK versus I guess like a team hmm that's a good question I think so I'm guessing  
this is like asking about like at an edit company not like your personal portfolio project so yeah if you're at a  
company I think one is like our team has been thinking a lot about like doing that scoping when you start the project  
and so we have in our book chapter 10s on making making an effective analysis and one of the things we recommend is  
making an analysis plan so making a document that you agree with your stakeholder of these are the questions I'm going  
to answer like here are the overarching ones like and here are some specific things I'm going to do to answer that  
question because what that can help with is it just limits the scope and you agree with your stakeholders they sign off  
on it and if you get to the end like sometimes like oh you know we try these things but I couldn't find the answer to  
this question or you know it turns out this isn't feasible I can be really easy for them to be like just you know just  
keep digging just pull in this other data set just pull that thing you'll be like OK you know but we need to re-talk  
about this and Maybe this would be phase two of this project and re-scoping it because you know we agreed to this part  
of the work and also you know and we have different we have we're juggling multiple priorities here so that's one thing  
I find helpful in terms of like one person versus multiple  
 

#### 01:12:02,239::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
 I think that really depends on your team structure so at data camp like I was the only that was my last company I was  
the only data scientist on the growth team but I could get help from the chief data scientists or other people but at  
etsy there were other there are two other analysts working on the search team so I think that's like much more of an  
individual like working with your your manager type thing and a little bit of trial and error because sometimes you  
start projects and you're like this is a lot more work than I thought it was when we scoped out it would take a month  
let me revisit this my manager and if needed the stakeholders OK the next question is from carlos regarding the  
process of analyzing data at work what's the most important confidence you do you think someone making a career change  
should develop for example this meaning data visualization versus so I think this it does depend somewhat on your job  
like what type of data science position I do think you need to be able to like make a full like simple but a full simple  
analysis yourself so you need to be able to take some messy data to tidy it like maybe that's a little string  
manipulation Maybe that's making a new column you need to visualize it you need to like make that into little reports  
like a very but like I mean like a very simple not like oh this is a really complex data set but you do need to be able  
to do that full cycle in terms of like OK great I kind of have this baseline like which should I develop more I think  
honestly it's like some of your interests like I know some people are data visualizations expert like maybe you want to  
go work as at a newspaper and be a data visualization person and that you might need to learn d3 to make interactive web  
visualization so maybe that's what you go down or you're like I'm gonna go work at this company that I really want to  
work at a small company and I know they may not have a lot of data engineers so I need to work more on like making the  
like the etl extract transform load process I really want to work on like OK how do I take data and like make it into  
a usable format so I don't think that necessarily like one is the right answer but you do want to make sure that you  
have that that baseline of being able again like it doesn't have to be like you know the most complicated thing I can  
deal with you know 50 million you know road data sets by making an aws like you know spinning up an aws cluster but you  
should be able to do like a full analysis from getting and cleaning the data to presenting the results that's that's  
that's good advice daria asks which r SQL package have you tried or would you recommend or is it better to stay with SQL  
itself so the engineering process yes so I love dbplier so dv player you can write dplyr code it gets translated into  
SQL you just have to do like a little setup thing at the at the top to like connect it to the SQL database for  
interviews though I would spend some time like learning SQL now fortunately with in r if you're using dplyr like the  
concepts are very similar you just have to be like oh it's not a filter it's a where you know but left joins the same  
like all that stuff but I would spend some time learning SQL like again sort of these basics joining where and also one  
of my favorite things called common table expressions so for the interview itself yes depending on your job you may end  
up doing like I did at datacamp like all of your your SQL using dbplier in r and writing our code or most of the yeah  
all right the next question is from tiwa which is do you think a masters is beneficial to advance your data science  
career to management I like I guess I'm guessing it's like a master like stats or computer science or data science  
honestly probably not like a lot of ways that people go into management is often there's an opening they're working as a  
data scientist at a company and there's an opening on their team so  
 

#### 01:16:00,560::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
Maybe a manager left maybe the team is growing it needs a manager and you kind of raise your hand for it that you're  
interested in in it and the types of skill you need in management like yeah it some companies managers still like stay  
fairly technical and do their own data science projects but other companies like honestly like it's not so much your  
data science skills there might be a technical lead like when people need mentorship on like r or Python and your job is  
a lot more like OK let me mentor mentor the team in their you know communication skills and scoping out projects I  
will help give them cover I will work with the other like you know the broader company to figure out what we should be  
working on and like those types of skills are not things you're going to learn in a data science master's program so you  
know that's there's always exceptions Maybe there are some there I could definitely believe there are some companies  
where they're like nope we require a formal master's degree in the field to be in management but most companies I would  
say that's not necessary the next question is from merdad which is when we reach an interview meeting with a data  
scientist team what type of questions are more important for them for example for a company working in mining and  
maintenance field I heard they may give us a hack-a-rank challenge yeah so that's the hard part is kind of what you're  
hitting on there is that the data science interviews there's just so many questions that they could ask oh my god you  
could be asked to like you know some super like mathematical like derivatives of something or you could be asked this  
like hacker rank or a leak code question and so on and so forth and you know you hit on something like you might be able  
to predict that a little bit based on the industry based on the type of job like if you're looking for a machine  
learning position you're more likely to get these like algorithm questions like lead code questions if you're looking  
for a decision science very stats heavy inference position you're more likely to be on the stat side but really I think  
the best way is if you're getting you know if you if you you know send your resume in you got a call with a hiring  
manager they're like we want to you know let's say maybe it's after the take home want to bring you on site is ask like  
you could absolutely ask the recruiter or the hiring manager hey like you know what what should I be preparing for for  
these interviews and they're not going to tell you the question but a good hiring manager interview recruiter will say  
like oh OK you know your first 30 minutes you'll be you know working with Emily on SQL code and you know you know  
writing SQL and the next one will be a case study you know with our product manager and the next one will be you know  
you know our exercise with this engineer so on and so forth so you can definitely ask look on glassdoor if it's a bigger  
company if they've hired data scientists before they might have the data science questions there but yeah unfortunately  
it is you know maybe you can ask them reddit you can ask on Twitter like hey I'm interested in this industry is anyone  
an experience with this industry no like what types of questions they ask but yeah it's it's such a variety and that's  
also why if you don't progress in an interview like don't don't think like all this means I'm never gonna be cut out for  
data scientists like think about like you know give yourself an ost review and be like OK like yeah I sort of froze up  
because yeah I'm really good at our code but I kind of forgot how to write a for loops let me practice that I might come  
up again but also you know just because you couldn't answer this like random like invert a binary tree computer science  
question it doesn't mean it will come up in another interview it doesn't mean you're not equipped to be a data scientist  
the next question is from tiffany how did you decide you wanted to do data science yeah so a little bit about my  
background so I'm also going to post this interview I gave right after I started at etsy I'm gonna post in the chat but  
yeah so I was in a phd program in organizational behavior in the social sciences that's basically psychology and  
sociology applied to work and I realized hey I don't really want to go into academia so I decided to leave with my  
master's degree after two years but then it's like well now what do I do and data science appealed to me because it had  
a lot of the  
 

#### 01:20:00,480::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
similar process to social science research especially quantitative social science research so coming up with a question  
like investigating past research on it gathering data whether through an experiment or an archival data set you know  
analyzing it presenting it to your advisor who knows a ton about this field but also to this qualitative researcher who  
like has you know never heard of this technique or this domain you're in and how do you communicate that so like it was  
similar enough in that way which is great but then the other part that you know brought me to data science was what I  
liked about was the immediate impact that it could have so in academia you might write a research paper one it could  
take seven years to publish two you publish it and Maybe no one ever reads it or benefits from it versus working in  
industry at a company and data science I really like this like I'm working with teams to solve their problems you know  
I'm gonna be able to help them and use these skills that I've learned I you know I minored in statistics and like you  
know maths and programming and r I learned as part of my undergraduate continued in grad school I can use this to you  
know to help people so that's really what drew me drew me to data science OK the next question is from bharati trying  
to make career changes what courses you suggest to make a start yeah so I think this is you know really dependent on  
kind of what you need the most of so for example did you come from you know one of like either computer science or stats  
or you're like no I didn't come back you know again I was a liberal arts major I don't have any of that so where do I  
start honestly there was so I recommend like introduction to cisco learning as a book I I'm not as good at answering  
this because I do have more of that formal background so I've picked I've definitely learned a lot on my own but it's  
mostly been sort of contained like oh I need to learn time series let me find the time series textbook or you know I  
need to learn how to handle this type of data in r so let me take this course so I don't fortunately don't necessarily  
have like a great recommendation for you but I think the important thing is to try to find something you know fight  
think about how you learn best like there are some interactive courses you know online like do you would you like to do  
that or you're coding in the browser or are you someone who could you know just listen to a video an hour a video  
lecture and like take notes so think about like how how you can learn best you know will help you figure out like what  
types of courses OK the next question is from lauren can you say more about your experience at metis yeah so I did  
metis back in summer of 2016 so right after I finished my masters and yeah I enjoyed it it was a good fit for me so  
basically I had the statistics I had the r knowledge but I wanted to learn some more like machine learning to learn some  
Python and also to have some time to learn git and github and build a project portfolio so I enjoyed metas because  
that's what metas is built around so you have about two hours of like course during the day but then the afternoon is  
all about working on your own project and that starts out like pretty structured so it's like OK work with the imdb  
data set to make these predictions about movie ratings but by the end of it it's just like do something with natural  
language processing like you have to come up with a question you get the data but you know there's the instructors there  
to help there are other people in the class there to help so that worked really well for me I would say but the  
advantage I had there was I moved home so I moved back to New York so I lived rent-free with my parents and I hadn't  
like my master's degree I had a stipend but it wasn't sort of just enough to live on so it wasn't like I'd gone from  
making you know 70 dollars a year and suddenly I had to figure out how do I live without a salary for the three months  
of metis and it's going to take usually a couple months after graduating to start a job so I started my job about three  
months after medicine ended so a total of six months you know where I wasn't making an income so you do have to  
definitely  
 

#### 01:24:01,440::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
weigh that against what you can get from metis but the last thing I'll say also is helpful is you know I wouldn't say  
most boot camps sort of like moocs they're not gonna like get you the job or Maybe even the interview by having on your  
resume it's much more about the experience you have there so like what might get your job is not like oh she went to  
metis it's like oh she did this this cool project and I see this blog post or she made this dashboard and that's exactly  
what we need so why don't we at least talk to her so that's the advantage and finally it's also helpful that medics now  
as well as other bootcamps have a fair amount of alumni because they've been around for a few years so that's also going  
to be helpful if you're interested in a company and I did this when I was looking there were fewer alumni then but there  
are a few companies I was interested in that I talked to a data scientist one referred me and also the other one said  
don't work here which was really helpful they were like this is not a good data science team and I never would have  
known that if not for having that connection through metis on reaching out to them all right the next question is from  
wassela this might be too specific to answer but when you're job hunting for your first data science job about what  
application to interview ratio would you expect yeah so and this is really yeah this is hard to answer because yeah it's  
kind of very specific per person so I think a big thing that influences this here is how like selective are you in your  
applications like are you only due to mostly only like I didn't apply to that many jobs because I mostly applied through  
people I knew you know referrals or companies I had connections with so in that case it was a relatively high  
application to the first interview because you know like I had like a decent background and you know I had the referrals  
so that was pretty high versus if I'd applied to a bunch of companies online cold applications that would have been very  
low so you know it really depends and then it is helpful though to analyze like OK what stages is there more drop-off  
like if I'm applying a bunch of places Maybe I'm trying with for I'm trying these things I'm not getting anything OK  
maybe I should talk to some people is it how I present myself on my resume is it that I'm applying to the wrong types of  
jobs like I I you know it turns out like oh I'm fine all these jobs that need that really really want this formal degree  
that I don't have or no I'm getting the hiring manager interviews and then I'm not going forward OK you know is what  
can I reflect on that part and so on and so forth so I think that's sort of more helpful but I would say I saw someone  
posting today who was laid off at airbnb and they talked about their first data science job search versus their second  
and like those ratios and I think they said like it was either like ten or five percent maybe of applications got them  
to the next stage so if that's your case like don't definitely that's not abnormal again this person applied to I think  
like 130 companies so if you're applying to that many companies most of them are not going to get back to you if you  
don't have previous experience as a data scientist OK the next question is how important is it to get object-oriented  
programming concepts data structures and algorithms to get a data scientist job it depends I'll be honest I don't know I  
vaguely remember things about object-oriented program I don't really need in my job because r is much more about  
functional programming although you can use object-oriented programming so in my case like I'm working I got a job and  
I'm working as a data scientist and I don't have that but so you know that being said you also mentioned I think like  
algorithms and stuff and if you're a machine learning engineer for example yes it is important to know you know like to  
know like owen write like the complexity of your algorithms because you know the speed's gonna really matter there you  
know they might ask you some sorting questions like you know bubble sort like how did you make this thing so it depends  
but I yeah I would say object oriented not necessarily if it's specifically listed in the job description it's probably  
worth brushing up on but I I wouldn't worry too much about it OK the next question is  
 

#### 01:28:01,920::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
in terms of day-to-day work what are the differences and similarities between the work a developer software engineer  
does versus what a data scientist does yeah I mean this really like software engineering even of itself like their day-  
to-day can look so different right you might know the terms like back-end versus front-end engineer like someone you  
know that the programming language that they use it can be totally different the types of problems but I would say in  
general like one thing that engineer much more common with engineering teams is to use jira or another like task  
management tool to have tickets and to really really like scope down like OK this is like first I'm gonna like do this  
part then I'm gonna do this part of the product that I'm gonna do this part because there's a lot less uncertainty in  
most of software engineering like generally you're not worried like can I even build this website like you may have  
uncertainty about how to build it but you kind of know what can be done like someone hopefully you can do it but someone  
can do it versus in data science like a predictive modeling process like half the time you find out like oh the data's  
not there we need to figure out the data or oh this data like tracking down to 20 people to figure out what this data  
means like took three days so that that's delay in the project or oh I made the model and it just we we can't like it's  
trying to predict you know what's the next dice roll like even if you have a thousand data points on the past ice roll  
you're never gonna be able to make a predictive algorithm that predicts the next one so I do think like that's the  
uncertainty inheritance data science does change like some of the process so some teams some data scientists teams do  
use agile do you use the sprint these two-week systems or jira tickets but I would say not many more software  
engineering teams do and again like I don't know the jobs are similar like I don't a new code but otherwise I think that  
they're quite different in the types of problems that you're working on the next question is how real is the threat of  
jobs lost to automated machine learning tools aka auto ml so this actually I don't think one it's not very great because  
of what I said before that like so much of the work is not like optimizing the you know like which like machine learning  
algorithm I use it's much about like how do I get the data what problems should we even be solving how do I talk to  
people how do I put this in production so it can be you know like this algorithm needs to serve our customer service  
team that's and it's going to be hit you know 5 million times a week so I would say not not much that being said like I  
think I'm gonna find it eduardo de la rubia had a great pack in our studio which was not the worry that like ml teams  
are gonna be replaced by automl but actually that the problem is data scientists don't necessarily have much of a  
competitive advantage there and engineers could actually be the ones replacing these machine learning teams because you  
know they have a lot of the capabilities and they just have to get up to speed in the machine learning part so that  
actually I think is the the bigger worry right there's also the critical thinking part of it too which is to put on data  
science so the last question is as do you know only one job in a team is related to ml so would you suggest picking up  
big data and cloud computing to break into the field yeah so if you know that so big data is tough because like SQL  
deals with big data you know like etsy stored like billions of events in our SQL database and I queried it and it worked  
very well but for like even bigger data we use scalding to write hadoop jobs so that was how etsy did it but another  
company may use presto another company may use Google bigquery another company may use this so I don't the problem is  
like big data tools outside of SQL are so much more fractured I don't think it's worth  
 

#### 01:32:00,800::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
trying to learn you know all of them or even one of them because it may not be the useful one but cloud computing I  
think it's hard to learn on your own cloud computing I do think if it's something you're interested in it's worth like  
playing around with aws or other tools but that's also something you could pick up on the job and I I certainly did I  
hadn't worked with cloud computing at all and then well I guess in etsy actually all the servers were in a server farm  
we did not have Google cloud when I was there but then I moved to data camp they used redshift on aws and I started  
picking that up all right so we have gone through all the questions thank you so much for staying good half hour past  
our webinar so one of the questions that I've seen so this this is being recorded it'll be available and also the slides  
will be made available on your website is that right yes also thank you artemis file also posted there's an old version  
of it so if you go to my website right now under speaking I gave pretty much the same talk in November and so you can  
find that and then I'll also add the slides from this talk up tonight and you can review them OK great thank you so  
much for being here and your patience and answering all the questions I think it's a record number of questions we've  
had so yeah I mean thank you all for tuning in I'm like especially folks who you know came in in like the middle of the  
night or in the morning or all these things so I'm just like you know very happy you know feel free if you have like I  
said I will sort of plug my own advice again like if you have more questions like I think it is worth I actually have a  
blog post on like getting a job and data science that I think is worth giving but if you do have like follow-up  
questions do feel free to reach out you do it on LinkedIn please add a message if you do because I get a lot of LinkedIn  
requests from random people and I don't usually I don't accept unless there's a message saying why they reached out or  
you can reach me on Twitter all right so thank you very much and yeah looking and your book you to just mention your  
book again yes so if you like this you like the book you can find it at datacycareer.com or this is my co-author's short  
link bestbook.cool they link to the same place that's on manning it's also on amazon but at manning you have the  
discount code so that's mtp umbrella20 and I also saw someone said they found a better one which great use it which is  
kd math 50. so I guess that's 50 off yeah and you can you can get it there if you get the physical book it comes with  
the ebook or you can just get the ebook all right great thank you so much and thank you for joining us tonight and for  
more Data Umbrella events follow us on Meetup and you can see what is coming up thank you yeah thank you for hosting  
 
