### Introduction
<!-- Editing Guide: The pipe (|) position in this comment is 120:                                                       | -->

Hey everybody welcome to Data Umbrella's webinar thanks for joining us I'm going to go over a brief introduction about  
Data Umbrella and then Liz is going to do her talk and then for the Q&Afor the questions you can feel free to post them  
in chat or in the Q&Atab and I'll sort of moderate the session and ask the questions as I can you know find a good  
place to interrupt Liz as she's presenting now this webinar will be is being recorded actually OK a little bit about  
me I am a statistician and data scientist I am based in New York city I am the founder of Data Umbrella and I'm also an  
organizer for the New York city chapter of PyLadies you can find me on Twitter with at reishmaest and I'm also on  
GitHub and LinkedIn with with the same username Data Umbrella our mission is to provide a welcoming and educational  
space for underrepresented persons in the field of data science and machine learning and we are a volunteer run  
organization you can find us on Twitter at Data Umbrella hi ladies is a group for Python of gender minorities really of  
all levels of programming experience I've included the link to our home page if you want to go to the global page it's  
PyLadies.com and you can follow us on Twitter as well I want to go over the code of conduct we're dedicated to  
providing harassment free experience for everyone we ask you know that our participants be professional and respectful  
and also you know just also you know this also applies to whatever questions are posted in chat whether in the communal  
chat or private dms and we want to thank you for making this a welcoming friendly community for everyone on the Data  
Umbrella website there are a bunch of resources that I've compiled about open source about conferences about learning  
Python and r as well as accessibility communities inclusive language and you know responsibility allyship there's  
there's a lot of great resources and so I encourage you to check it out when you have time after the webinar so I we  
know we have upcoming webinars we do about two webinars a month and so the best place to find out about upcoming events  
is on our Meetup page we also do share it on Twitter as well on LinkedIn is where there are job postings and also  
there's a LinkedIn page where I share resources YouTube is where all of our webinars are recorded and uploaded so you  
can subscribe to our YouTube channel so you get notifications and so now I'm going to turn over the screen I guess to  
Liz Liz and I actually work together in New York we teach intro to our stats classes in New York and that's how I know  
Liz and so I'm really excited to see her online it's been a while and also really really excited to hear about this is  
top sure thank you ishmael and hello everybody let me just share my screen really quickly all right so as Rachel has  
said my name is Elizabeth Deluzio and I'm here today to just talk to you a little bit about my area of specialty my area  
of passion which is program evaluation and in particular program evaluation in times of crisis and change  
 

#### 00:04:02,319::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
and so for sure we're in one of those moments but I do think that even beyond COVID and our coveted era however long it  
lasts the skills that it takes to have really responsive data and data feedback for data-driven decision-making I think  
is something that's needed all of the time no matter what time period we're in so I think these things can span in  
importance so just a little bit about me before I begin talking about those things I if you're not familiar with what  
program evaluation is I think of it as applied research it's research that's for a purpose and particularly help  
programs run more efficiently run just more intelligently and to learn from the work that they're doing I've been  
working with non-profits governments and foundations for over 15 years I started off as an eighth grade teacher I taught  
eighth grade for six years and I always say that you know if I can teach eighth graders I can teach anybody and so today  
not only do I do work in evaluation I teach these types of tools and just data literacy skills in general I have an mph  
and an msw so I in terms of jobs that I do I work in internal evaluation for a non-profit in New York city called good  
shepherd services and we serve children youth and families about 30 000 per year I teach quantitative methods at nyu  
I've been doing that for about a year now and then I'm a facilitator at evaluation and learning consulting and so that's  
who I'm speaking from and who I'm representing today and so when it comes to evaluation and learning consulting they  
they do consulting work that is specifically around evaluation work around strategy and and building that work for non-  
profits and governments so that's me and just in terms of what I hope for you to get from today so three different goals  
for you the first one is my favorite participatory method for identifying key metrics so if you're going through the  
program evaluation cycle the first thing that needs to happen is OK we want to assess how we're doing we want to  
assess the impact that we're having and that first step is OK well how will we measure that and so I have a method  
that I like to use it is participatory in order to get as much feedback as possible about what is the best way of  
measuring x y and z so then from there once we have a way of measuring it now we move into this data collection and and  
I have a specific tool that I want to share with you that I I like a lot which is forms and and it's very similar  
between Google and Microsoft but either way this is how we collect the data so we've identified how we want to measure  
what it is that we want to measure and then we can create this data collection tool and I'll explain to you why this is  
where I tend to go if I need to collect data and then once it comes to the reporting phase how do we get that  
information in the hands of decision makers quickly my go-to tool is Google data studio which is what I want to show you  
today and Microsoft Power BI is the Microsoft version of that but either of those help with real-time analyses so gone  
are the days of printing out reports and making sure it gets emailed or handed to somebody this allows somebody to have  
the report in front of them real-time data and they can interact with it which is an extremely powerful tool so again  
I'm going to go through each of these phases too but basically I want to take you in less than an hour from the  
beginning stages of how do I even think about what it is that I want to measure to how do I collect that data and how do  
I report on that data and what are the tools that can help me to get there  
 

#### 00:08:01,120::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
so before I begin I just want to get a feel from you about what brought you here so I have a poll that I want to  
activate right now hopefully that pops up on the screen in front of you so just curious what brought you here so of  
those three things which one interests you and this will kind of help me to figure out what to spend more time on than  
others customize what I'm doing a little bit so I'm not sure if you can see the results but if you can't it looks like  
we've got oh people are still voting a and b are neck and neck and then oh c just caught up though all right so you all  
are just interested in everything it looks like it's a tie a and b 14 votes and then c got 10 votes so that's great  
thank you appreciate the feedback and I will distribute my time evenly as Reshama said if you have any questions as I'm  
going through I'm going to go through each of the the three phases I'll stop in between for questions but as they come  
up type them in the chat box and if Reshama you know just speaks up and inserts them into what I'm saying that's great  
and otherwise we can wait for those question sections to just make sure that your questions get answered so when it  
comes to identifying key metrics so the there's a stage process that I go through and it's a short one I do try to make  
sure that one I don't take too much time these things could take you know months but that's not the goal the goal is to  
get things done quickly and then I really work through an iterative process so we we do something we start collecting  
because it's important to begin and then we can tweak along the way so the first step is just to identify the evaluation  
question what is the question that we want to answer so examples could be what services are we are we providing right  
now we think we know we told the funder that we'd be doing x y and z but what are we actually doing and then how often  
are we doing what we're doing another question or set of questions could be which services are actually being accessed  
so we have these wide array of services what are people actually accessing and then to what degree thank you for  
sticking with us OK so just to go back I'm not sure where I lost you all however just to run really quickly through  
this slide again so in terms of identifying key metrics there's the evaluation questions that we want to figure out  
exactly what it is that we want to know so once we know what it is that we want to know and some examples could be what  
services are being provided what's being accessed who is accessing them then we move into who do we need in order to  
answer this question in order to figure out what our metrics will be to measure and figure out the answer to the  
question and so some examples of people who we might want to invite into this event it'll be a couple of hour meeting  
would be programs staff funders contract managers analysts it could be maintenance folks or people who work at the front  
desk of the program that's being offered be creative the more people the better in my opinion so the more minds you have  
on this the better chances you are to figure out the metrics that are appropriate for answering this question so once  
this sorry I just wanted is your mic the same as it was before I think so OK you can test that OK let's give this a  
try markers those are the tools that you  
 

#### 00:12:24,480::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
want with you if you're doing it online which it looks like for a little while at least that's what we'll be doing there  
is an online intern alternative called jamboard and if you're not familiar with what that is I did record a really quick  
tutorial on Google jamboard there's a hyperlink here and I will send out the link to these slides afterwards or I'll ask  
Reshama to do so so you have that but Google jamboard is a free online resource I can demo it if we have some time at  
the end and essentially it has post-its where it's a big board people can add post-its move post-its around annotate and  
so on so it's it simulates this environment of a post-it type meeting and then when it comes to the main activity what  
we're calling people together to do is a three-part brainstorming session and it comes from ido's field guide to human-  
centered design so this is based in human-centered design and again this participatory approach that they highlight so  
number one the first step is to ideate so we provide everybody a stack of post-its if we're doing it online we just ask  
people to write that down on their computer or on a piece of paper in front of them we set a timer for five minutes and  
we prompt them to generate as many ideas as possible possible so we're going back to this question if if our question is  
what services are being accessed and to what degree we will ask people OK well if we were going to measure something  
like that what are some questions that we would want to have answered or what are some data points that we would want to  
make sure that we're collecting so we would give everyone five minutes to just brainstorm on their own after that we  
move into a discussion phase where we have another five minutes set up and we group people into small groups again if  
it's in person it's about groups of three to four if it's online I often use zoom so I can have folks break out into  
breakout rooms of three or four people and that's when I move them into Google jam boards and that's when I have folks  
share their ideas and they're looking for similarities they're looking for themes so if they have the exact same idea we  
might have them you know write a couple of post-its and stack them up if they're starting to see themes they might want  
to cluster them together they might want to change the color of the post-its to all be one certain color and again we're  
just kind of starting to generate the group's opinion on what it those metrics are that we want to be collecting and  
then the final stage is to come back together as a whole group and this is where we share if I was in person what I  
would do is just ask folks OK what was one of the more popular metrics that you thought in your group needed to be  
collected I'd collect their post-its I'd ask the rest of the room who else had this idea I'd collect all those post-its  
and I'd stick them up on that big piece of poster paper and I'd continue in this way for again another five to ten  
minutes and I I make sure it's time just that way the best ideas the most popular ideas will come to the surface during  
that shortened period of time and I am again looking for trends looking for similarities looking for what it is that the  
group is in general saying and the reason that I like this pattern again it's it's consolidated we really make sure we  
stick to those that time period because these types of meetings and again coming up with just metrics can take a really  
long time if we let it but what's important is making sure that we begin and so again making sure that we have many  
people in the room many voices many  
 

#### 00:16:00,880::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
perspectives we give each person their own time on their own so that you know the the person with the highest  
credentialing in the room or the person with the most power the highest position is not the one whose voice makes all  
the decisions everyone gets a chance to come up with their own thoughts collect them and then everybody you have your  
post-its so everybody is able to share what their ideas are and each idea counts equally and then that's how we  
cultivate where what those metrics are all together so that's that in a nutshell do we have any questions Reshama from  
the group just about that technique there's so much more I could say about it OK I don't see any questions in the chat  
OK so there's so much more that could be said and you're more than welcome to reach out if you have any questions  
about it but that's in general the method that I use to come up with what those metrics are so once I have those metrics  
it's time to create this data collection tool and then let's do another really quick poll because I'm curious what it is  
that you use so when you're working whether you have a job or whether you do consulting do you typically use Google  
Microsoft both or neither OK great so I'm seeing a majority Google which is great and then I'm seeing so that's six  
people at Google two Microsoft three both and two neither so Google wins this this round which is actually really great  
to see oh I see more both coming in great OK in the chat I'm just curious those who use neither or if you use  
something else please feel free to share it's also just a really great opportunity for all of us to learn from each  
other so that's good to know just to understand where you're coming from as I shared a little bit at the beginning I  
tend towards form if I can and here's the reasons why I use forms because it's an easy way to collect data it's online  
it's free it's collaborative so many people can get in and edit it at the same time I think it's extremely intuitive  
it's very user friendly it has a lot of features it can do the basics for sure and then why I use this in particular is  
if in the end I know that my audience my decision makers who need this data are friendly to online live visualization  
tools so if they're familiar with dashboards and true dashboards then I try my hardest to make sure that I use forms  
whether it's Google forms or Microsoft forms so that it can feed into that live dashboard and if that doesn't quite make  
sense I'll explain more and I'll show you what I'm talking about but there are some drawbacks and I think that's worth  
noting so again it's I really believe there's no one solution for everything it's just for those of you who use both  
right it's understanding what the needs are to figure out what the tool is that's best for what you want to do so there  
are some drawbacks to keep in mind one of them is that you need a Google account to create a form honestly that's not a  
huge drawback but if you're not into signing up for a new anything or trying to remember a new password that might be a  
deterrent Google accounts are free for those of you who are not familiar what I will say a true drawback is that there  
are not as many features something like surveymonkey so if you're looking for something that has a really  
 

#### 00:20:00,880::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
one polished look to it or two has pretty advanced features you won't find it in forms it's it's a basic go-to it cannot  
branch questions only sections so that's worth noting we're in surveymonkey you know if if you answer a jump to question  
nine if you answer b jump to question 13 that is not the case for either forms Microsoft or Google what you do need to  
do instead is branch sections and I'll show you what that means so it has to be a little bit more simple one thing I  
particularly don't like is that the templates and design options are pretty limited so again it's a really basic thing  
it's not going to be completely customizable so just really quickly I'll show you what I'm talking about so if you do  
have a Google account or when you sign up for your Google account there's something called the drive so that's  
drive.Google.com so you can see my drive here the menu for all the Google apps is right up here in the top right hand  
corner and so you can see all of the different features here one thing I will point out is jamboards is here so it's  
hidden there and I didn't even know I don't know how long it's been around I only learned about it maybe four months ago  
and I love it it has spread like wildfire among me and my peers but that's there for you to play around with and then  
forms is also here and I think yep it's on the same line so if you click on forms it will take you to the landing page  
of Google forms this is what that looks like up here you can see some templates and then down here you can see forms  
that I myself have created so I'll show you a demo form that I just use exactly for purposes like this so let's say that  
this is an evaluation form you can see just you know basics around these sections that I was talking about you create  
sections and questions here in the toolbar here's how you add a section here's how you add questions each of your  
sections can be their own page so I just like to think of it when you're chunking the questions maybe by theme or by  
complexity of the question itself when it comes to adding questions there are so many options which I think is really  
excellent so for more qualitative questions you have short answer and paragraph options for more quant you have multiple  
choice check boxes drop down menus you know I've created forms for hr departments and sometimes they need documentation  
uploaded there is a file upload which is incredible and it can put it right in your drive which is the first place that  
we looked so it'll go right in there and it'll keep it all in one folder for you linear scale so that's your leicard  
scale you can do that multiple choice grids and checkbox grids and then we have date and time options there's lots of  
different features and it's pretty intuitive in how you you enter your questions so questions go here the options all go  
here you can make the question required if you like or it can be optional a lot of customization that can take place  
once you create your questions and your sections you can just click and drag to move things around and then you know  
there's some features up here you can change what it looks like you can change this header image you can change your  
color scheme there really is a lot that you can do with just this free version of forms and then you can preview it so  
you click on that button and you can play around to see how it looks you can see as I said each section becomes its own  
page which is nice for chunking to not have people get fatigued when completing your survey and then in particular when  
it comes to  
 

#### 00:24:01,760::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
pulling out the data there's this tab here for responses and you can see there are no responses yet but what it will do  
is create a summary some an aggregation of the responses that you get for each of the questions and then if you want to  
do your own analysis you can click on this button here the create spreadsheet and that will allow you to download a  
spreadsheet or open it up in Google forms sorry Google sheets and do your own analysis and create your own reports and  
so as I said you could just end there and you can do whatever reporting it is that you like to do what I love about this  
particularly if you open it in Google sheets is that that sheet now becomes live so any time that somebody enters a new  
form and they they complete it they submit it it adds a new line a new row into your sheet and so anytime you go back  
there it's got you can see updated information being put in immediately which I think is just really helpful and so why  
in particular that's helpful is this idea of live dashboarding so I'm just going to pause here before I segue into live  
dashboarding and just see if anybody has any questions again this is a really quick overview of forms so if you have any  
questions about what this is what it looks like how to do something please feel free to ask there was a question from  
about can you provide an example where you did the key metrics identification how was its reception maybe you might want  
to answer that at the end of the presentation since we're passing that out sure I can do that any other questions about  
the data collection tool I don't see any other questions OK OK and you know I might as well just answer when it  
comes to the key metrics I that is my go-to I I teach this methods to people so they can go out and do it themselves and  
it is my go-to whenever I'm helping folks create an evaluation system I can't say that I've ever had a bad reception to  
it although I can imagine there's some anxiety that people hide because they need to be involved right like often we  
come to meetings and we expect to just be talked to and people to do the work for you especially as a consultant coming  
in they often expect me to just come up with everything and so there is the conversation of it really it's an honoring  
of you have the knowledge I'm just helping to facilitate and pull all of that out and so in that space I always ask for  
line level staff to be involved so they're not necessarily the one who pulled me into this program to do the work but  
now they're involved and engaged in it and quite honestly I think they love it I find that people really get into these  
conversations because we're talking about things that they're passionate about this is their job this is their life work  
and so to be able to have me ask them questions and truly treat them as the expert because they are the expert in their  
content then I I find that there's a really hearty conversation I almost get overwhelmed with how much information I I  
receive and need to sift through and find some solutions too so I I find it goes over very well please feel free to ask  
follow-up questions so that if you you want to know more and or if I didn't answer your question as you you hoped I  
would OK so then let me jump into dashboarding and what that looks like and so I'll just start by just a quick note  
about automation because if anybody's even tried to automate anything whether it's you know live dashboarding  
 

#### 00:28:00,080::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
or something completely different you know that this it can go very well and it can also not go very well and so you  
know I love this this cartoon that just kind of demonstrates what not very well can look like which is hey you know this  
quote I spent a lot of time on this task I should write a program to automate it and at the top is what we imagine our  
life is going to be like right so we have our level of work which is right in the middle we know there's going to be an  
uptick when it comes to writing the code or creating this automation but then once the automation kicks in we're going  
to have all of the spare time to do all these other amazing things to enrich ourselves to professionally develop and  
then often if not really thought through or it doesn't have the support it needs what can happen is what's down below  
which is we have that that level of work we write our code but then we need to debug and then we need to rethink and  
then we have ongoing development and updates and upgrades and it turns out that you no longer have the time in fact you  
feel more overwhelmed than you did when you began and so I say this not to scare and not to scare you away from  
automation for sure but I do say make your decisions with eyes wide open and so as I've said I've I've tried automation  
that has not worked and then I've done automation that has truly saved me so much time and in fact that automation did  
take the form of forms into for me it was for an organization that uses Microsoft so it was Microsoft forums to  
Microsoft Power BI and it saved me an infinite amount of time and and folks truly like it is collaborative it is  
everything that I'm telling you and it has worked tremendously so when it comes to dashboarding I also like to just  
clarify what I mean by dashboarding because I think that term gets used loosely and is not always true to what  
dashboarding is so dashboarding is a tool and it contains real-time information and it that information is directed  
towards decision makers that they are equipped with what they need in order to make decisions it is directly connected  
to one or more database it automatically updates itself and the information is shared via visualizations so sometimes  
people will call a printed out report a dashboard that is not a true dashboard it really is this real time information  
that people have access to so when it comes to creating interactive dashboards when it comes to Google if you're using  
Google that is called data studio and if you're using Microsoft it's called Microsoft Power BI and what I love about  
data studio in particular is that it is extremely similar to tableau and Power BI tableau being one of the more famous  
more popular data visualization tools I would say that if you know how to use one you know how to use the other I've  
worked in all three and they are extremely similar interfaces so I think that's a great option and I always encourage  
people that if dashboarding is the way that you want to go if you either one are dashboarding already with folks or  
that's in a place that you want to take your organization or your clients that I would always recommend starting with  
Google data studio just because it's free before you make this financial investment in one of these other two things I  
encourage you to start with Google if at all possible mostly because it's free and it gives you the opportunity to bail  
out if you if it's not working for whatever reason so free being another highlight I do behind it easy to learn I think  
there is the learning curve I think it is generally intuitive so I say that for it I think it's extremely easy to  
 

#### 00:32:00,960::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
share you can share not only you can create pdfs if you want to I think that beats the point but if you need to archive  
a certain amount of data for a certain day you can download pdfs and save them or email them out but you can also send a  
link so that folks can just see the live data at any time you can also it has the HTML code so that you can insert it  
into a web page or somewhere else it is collaborative just like any Google platform and it can draw from many types of  
data sources which I think is really powerful tools also so it can pull from Google sheets as I shared already but it  
can also pull from any database where you can obtain a URL and so it's very powerful in that regard it can pull from SQL  
databases as well there are some drawbacks though of course again this is what I was speaking to when make your  
decisions with eyes wide open you need a Google account to use I should just get rid of that bullet I think that's silly  
but it's worth knowing you need to make a Google account it does not have as many features as tableau or Power BI so  
again I I don't I I think it's not fair to call it training wheels because it is its own true full system but I often  
think of it as training wheels you start with Google data studio I encourage folks to and then if you need more features  
that might be the time to invest in tableau or Power BI but I've seen organizations stick with Google data studio for  
all of their needs for extended periods of time and you don't necessarily need to upgrade it can vary security issues  
and that's worth noting if you have any sort of private data you want to make sure that you de-identify before you start  
putting anything in Google and I always recommend that folks just speak to the I.t department of whatever organization  
you're working with to make sure that they don't have a hard and fast no Google policy and see if they have any  
recommendations on how to keep the data more secure and actually I do think somebody told me that if you have a paid  
version of Google so for the company actually uses Google as their their platform then it is within the firewall often  
of an organization so that too is worth knowing so a really quick demo for you so unfortunately and I have a feeling I  
know why but I won't go into the history lesson in your drive there is not an app for Google data studio and so you  
would just need to type into your toolbar datastudio.Google.com and again this is free if you have a Google account you  
have data studio so this is what this home page looks like it's very similar to Google forms so you see some templates  
up here and then you can see a couple of reports that I had created here so I just want to look at the accident data  
with you so what this is is accident data for the northeast United States and it was for I think July to December of  
2019 this is just open data that's out there on the web and I had created a dashboard just to demo what the different  
features are so you can see it looks beautiful it really can have a very professional appearance to it this is what  
folks would look like look at if they clicked into your dashboard so you can see five different tools just here we have  
the ability to make pie charts we have the ability to make bar charts line graphs and then over here too we have so  
stacked bar is here and then just a single number so you can see our record count the number of accidents from July to  
December in these four states  
 

#### 00:36:01,839::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
was almost 34 000. and then if we the reason that this is so powerful and that I love using live dashboards so much is  
that if we had somebody who wanted to dig down and understand more so say they wanted to understand what the monthly  
breakdown of accidents are for New York only it's as simple as clicking on the pie slice for New York city and then  
pausing and waiting and you can see when I hover over it there are 20 000 almost 21 000 accidents that took place so of  
the 34 21 occurred in New York city or New York state alone now there are a lot of pieces of data so it takes a moment  
to think about but what you'll see as soon as it's it's done is that these bars will all adjust to show New York city  
only it's filtering right now so it's going into the spreadsheet it's finding only the New York city and New York state  
accidents and it's pulling out that data that's related to it for these other categories so now we can see which it  
looks like June had the most accidents followed by October and then closely followed by November and we can see the  
change over time and we can hover over and see exact details so it's it's this is the interactive piece that I'm  
speaking to and you can click on multiple pies at the same time I can drill down further so if I wanted to look at New  
York in June I could do that the the story goes on and on you can also drill down so you can see here circumstantial  
factors this is broken down accidents that happened during the day and happened at night and if I wanted to dig deeper  
so underneath that is OK well I want to understand the morning hours versus full daytime versus evening versus sunset  
you can click on say the day bar and it'll show you a breakdown of more specific time periods during daytime hours and  
so that's called drill down versus filtering which is what I did up here so there's that and then the other thing that I  
love to show and it might take a moment to load but there are lots of features I'll show you just the back end of how to  
develop this really quickly but what we have here is the ability to create a map also and it is so easy so those of you  
who really respect and understand how challenging it can be to develop a map not so much when you're working with data  
studio it's as easy as dropping in an app and you can see here now what a story this tells when we're looking at  
accident data you can tell where the major highways are it's so clear and New York city is clearly a hot spot as are the  
what is that one the turnpike and the parkway no this one's the turnpike that one's the parkway coming out in New Jersey  
boston area is a hot spot so anyway that's the data visually now if I wanted to show you the back end really quickly I'm  
going to click on edit again it might just take a moment to load and again if any of you are familiar with tableau or  
you're familiar with Power BI this is going to look so familiar to you they worked very hard to make sure that it's a  
very interactive platform it has a lot of drag and drop features just going to go back to page one really quickly and  
just show you so up here is the main command area when you begin you start with just a blank a blank screen and you  
would select add data so the very first thing is obviously you need to get your data here's the option for Google sheets  
and what  
 

#### 00:40:02,560::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
happens is you'll click on that it will take you to your drive and you'll just find that sheet that is the output from  
your Google forms once you have it connected the two are connected forever I think this updates every 15 minutes so  
anytime a new form is put in within 15 minutes this data will be reflecting that information and then once you've got  
your data connected and again you can connect multiple data data sets at the same time there's this add chart feature  
and you can see how many visualization options there are I've shown you most of them but there are more so you can  
insert just a general table if you think that that's the most valuable way to share information sometimes it is you can  
do donut charts you can do different types of line charts and area charts scatter plots tree maps which is a personal  
favorite of mine so there are lots of options and then once you decide let's say you wanted to do a pie chart let's say  
this was the one that I was working on this is where we edit it and make it look the way that we want it to so this list  
of available fields are all of the columns inside of my data set from the accident data and it's as simple as taking  
whatever it is that you want to visualize so let's say we wanted to create this accident by states I would just find  
state down here and I click and drag it into the dimension and then when it comes to metric that's just asking you how  
is it quantified so we'll represent the states but how do you want me to quantify that and then that is through the  
record counts I want to know the number of accidents for each of those states and so again I would find record count and  
I would insert it here you can do lots of things after you have done the basics so you can find a different sorting  
method if you don't like the way it's sorted and then the style is where we make this look really professional so once  
you've got the chart with the information that you wanted to have you can come in here you can change the number of pie  
slices you can change the coloring you can add your data labels you can change the size of your font the font type the  
the font color you can just go on and on and it's the same for all of these charts and so you know all of these things  
that you see here from the month the way it's spelled out that's not the way it is in the data set I wrote over my data  
labels here you can specify where you want them located it's just there's there's endless maybe not endless but a lot of  
possibilities about how you can make this look so that you can get something that looks really professional and is  
something that folks are excited quite honestly to click into and explore so that's my spiel for this any questions for  
me about data studio there's obviously so much more to say about it but I just wanted to give you a little teaser any  
questions Reshama I don't see any questions now OK great thank you OK so that's those are all those tools I see we  
have a couple of minutes left I do just want to do a quick close out and then I'll be here for questions as long as you  
are just in terms of you know what we went over today we talked about oh my favorite way of identifying key metrics like  
how do we capture the what it is that we need to measure in order to answer our question  
 

#### 00:44:00,400::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
then I went over forms which is how my preferred way of collecting data and in particular if I want to have this  
interactive reporting platform and so that's Google data studio so just some final thoughts and tips oh sure there's one  
question from rose does the dashboard access work the same way as permissions to regular Google drive apps I if I  
understand your question correctly rose yes it does it it interacts with everything on your drive in just the same way  
and if your question is around people and their permissions that is the same as well so you can limit who can see what  
who has access to edit versus who has viewing access but when it comes to pulling the data it needs to be within your  
drive or you need to have a hyperlink to that that SQL database or that you know other platforms database so just in  
terms of you know final thoughts words of advice despite any types of limitations I think that Google forms and data  
studio are quick they're flexible as I've said I've had tremendous success I had to help organizations set up just  
really quick just covet data around who was being affected and where and when and all sorts of things and and these  
platforms made everything so easy to communicate at real time they're excellent training wheels for other paid programs  
as I went over I do think that m e is as much an art as it is a science so we love to think of research and data and  
data analysis as so scientific and just 100 logical linear but there's an art to it and anybody who is a true math  
person will admit that that there is art too and so with that in mind it is really important to have a nimble and  
iterative design so not something that takes months and months and months to develop and lots of money only to find out  
that it's not working for you I really am an advocate of getting started getting something going your most viable  
product right minimum viable product and then going from there and building on it from there make any creation process  
as participatory as possible I think that too helps to eliminate later down the road when you realize this is not  
working the way that we planned on it too and then yeah those are my my big questions or pointers for you and then just  
one more question for you I just activated the poll which is what do you want to learn more about is there anything you  
want to know more about so identifying key evaluation metrics there's so much more to talk about when it comes to that  
data collection methodology and tools creating interactive dashboards other data related skills and other evaluation  
related skills good so Rachel this is good feedback for you too for future webinars but it looks like creating  
interactive dashboards is winning with three votes other data related skills is high too oh there's a three-way tie at  
the moment as well as identifying evaluation metrics creating interactive dashboards OK great so creating interactive  
dashboards is the most popular followed very very closely by identifying evaluation metrics and other data related  
skills but somebody wants everything so that's good to know too  
 

#### 00:48:00,400::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
 so in terms of how I can help and would love to help with all of these things I'm going to close this poll really  
quickly in terms of continuing your learning if it was identifying key evaluation metrics that is of interest to you I  
do so during this coveted time I normally teach all these classes in person particularly in the city of New York but I'm  
leveraging the internet and this time that I have to develop more so as I said evaluation and consulting learning  
consulting is about teaching as well and so we're developing self-paced online classes as I shared earlier it's it's  
micro learning so we focus on having classes that are five to seven minutes long at most and they're just little little  
skills that we teach and then the class just is just made up of that so you can direct yourself you can pick and choose  
what it is that you want to learn and and just move at your own pace so we're developing a class that we teach in person  
to be an online platform you can pre-order and then we have live online classes too so you can sign up for the next live  
one same thing goes for data collection same thing goes for interactive dashboards what I will say is we have both the  
data collection and interactive dashboards online already and there's safe self-paced version and I have this discount  
code for people who attend our webinars as a way of just saying thank you and we want to to empower you to learn more so  
if you use web50 it'll give you 50 off anything whether it's a live class or whether it's the self-paced model so then  
when it comes to other data related skills as Rachman shared we've met each other through teaching Excel or I'm sorry r  
but we also teach Excel Python SQL qgis so if you're interested in any of those let us know we're creating that content  
again recorded and then we have live sessions periodically and then when it comes to other evaluation related skills or  
really anything if you just want to talk I'm so happy if you can click on that hyperlink there to just look at my  
calendar find a good time that works for you and we can just talk I've had people who want to troubleshoot things who  
just want to know more about you know the way that I find key evaluation metrics whatever it might be I'm more than  
happy to have conversation and we can go from there so please do that again I'll I can ask Reshama to send out a link  
to this powerpoint so you have all of these hyperlinks easily accessible to you and then just for me the the website is  
here it's avalarn.com that's our company my email is right there and my Twitter please come find me please reach out I'm  
so happy to engage with you more these I'm so passionate about all these topics and excited to find a community that is  
too so thank you for your time I so appreciate it and I hope all of you have a good day and if you have any questions  
I'll be here for a few more minutes Liz thanks so much what I will do is once the recording is available I'll upload  
uploaded to YouTube and I typically include a link to the slides in the description of the video so that's the best  
place for people to find it and yeah we can hang on for a couple minutes and see if anybody has any questions before we  
close it out OK it is on the hour and people depending on if they're taking their lunch break for East coast time they  
may be heading out but yeah if anybody has any questions feel free to post them in the chat this thank you so much for  
the presentation it was really great I I personally love Google data  
 

#### 00:52:00,960::		4 minutes mark -> new paragraph 
 
sodium I put it I love the interactive dashboard I love being able to see what the data point numbers are and just  
putting together you know a dashboard very quickly agreed and it is it is that easy to put it together quickly you can  
get something in the hands of people as quickly as they want it right all right everybody so there are no questions so  
we are going I'm going to sign off and thank you for joining us and the recording will be available soon thanks  
 
