# Data Umbrella Audio_Transcription Project - README

This project's goal is to automate portions of the tasks needed to convert the captions of presentation videos in the Data Umbrella [YouTube channel](X).   
The `pytube` library is used to access the video and its metadata, e.g. audio track(s) and automatically generated captions, which constitute the raw text for the formatted transcripts published by year in the `Transcripts` folder of the [Data Umbrella](https://github.com/data-umbrella) (DU) repo.  
Towards this aim, the audio of the video is save locally so that it can be played, stopped, and restarted at will in a Jupyter notebook during the reviewing of the roughly processed auto-generated video captions.

# Transcription by DU repo contributors

Volunteer transcribers indicate their intention to produce the transcript (in part or in whole) by:
* Placing an issue indicating which presentation they chose. Unprocessed presentation transcripts are indicated in the main [Transcripts README file](https://github.com/data-umbrella/event-transcripts/blob/main/README.md).
* Forking the repo and creating a branch for the presentation identifier.

# Here is a brief 'git contribution' commands workflow (amended from [Astropy's documentation](https://astropy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/development/workflow/development_workflow.html#new-to-git)):

0. If not done:
Fork (copy) a GitHub repository in your GitHub space  
Clone the forked GitHub repository on your local system  

1. git fetch 
>gets the latest Repo version, which you will use as the basis for making your changes.

2. git branch 
>makes a logically separate copy of Repo to keep track of your changes.

3. git checkout -b <aname>
>create a branch for each issue/feature you are working on, e.g. 'transcript_<id>'

4. git status 
>see a list of files that have been modified or created.

5. git add 
>stages files you have changed or created for addition to git.

6. git commit -m "<recommended: include a Status from the Status.Enum, e.g. "Partial (w.i.p.)"?>"
> adds your staged changes to the repository.

7. git push 
>copies the changes you committed to GitHub

* See also this brilliant [DEV.to post on fixing git mistakes](https://dev.to/egghead/illustrated-notes-on-fixing-git-mistakes-1c16).

# Functional implementation
The project implements functions related to two roles, which are functional, not authorization-related:
  1. Admin
  2. Editor
    
## 1. Admin's tasks:
### ADD: Add a new entry in the README main table, and setup of the starter transcript Mardkown file.
### MODIFY: Update (change, correct, amend, etc) an entry in the README main table, or update any part of the _header_ in the transcript Mardkown file.
  => This 'Admin.MODIFY' function NEVER modify any existing transcript text: the Editor-related functions do that.

## 2. Editor's tasks:
### The task of the ~~transcriber~~ Editor is to further 'clean up' the initial transcript auto-generated by this project:
* Provide appropriate headers, e.g. "Introduction [by host name] <time stamp>".  
* Apply appropriate capitalization of words (for those not covered in the text cleaning function).  
* Add punctuation. The audio file was not processed at all, so the initial transcript inherits the 'punctuation-free' status of the Google auto-genrated captions.
* Modify paragraph breaks. The initial transcript is chunked into paragraphs corresponding to 4 minutes intervals, which is a user parameter, as is the wrapping width.
* Provide additional sections relevant to the presentation, e.g. extra references.  
* Update the presentation transcript Markdown file via a pull request (PR).  
